# test htmlpreview.github.io/?

P1 2022-01-04 Why is the Mona Lisa so famous - Noah Charney 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=1)
As dawn broke over Paris on August 21st, 1911, Vincenzo Peruggia hoisted a painting off the wall and slipped down the back stairs of the Louvre. He was close to freedom, the exit just before him when he encountered a two-pronged problem: the door was locked and footsteps were approaching. Tucked under Peruggia’s arm was Leonardo da Vinci’s “Mona Lisa.” It's arguably the world's most famous painting today. But how did it achieve its status? Leonardo is thought to have started the portrait in 1503 at the request of a Florentine businessman who wanted a portrait of his wife, Lisa Gherardini. Leonardo continued working on the painting for more than 10 years, but it was unfinished by the time he died. Over his lifetime, Leonardo conducted groundbreaking studies on human optics, which led him to pioneer certain artistic techniques. Some can be seen in the “Mona Lisa.” Using “atmospheric perspective,” he made images at greater distances hazier, producing the illusion of profound depth. And with “sfumato,” he created subtle gradations between colors that softened the edges of the forms he depicted. All of this is striking, but is it enough to make the “Mona Lisa” the world’s most famous painting? Many scholars consider it an outstanding Renaissance portrait— but one among plenty. And history is full of great paintings. Indeed, the “Mona Lisa’s” rise to worldwide fame depended largely on factors beyond the canvas. King François the First of France purchased the painting and began displaying it after Leonardo’s death. Then, in 1550, Italian scholar Giorgio Vasari published a popular biography of Italian Renaissance artists, Leonardo included. The book was translated and distributed widely, and it contained a gushing description of the “Mona Lisa” as a hypnotic imitation of life. Over the years, the “Mona Lisa” became one of the most enviable pieces in the French Royal Collection. It hung in Napoleon’s bedroom and eventually went on public display in the Louvre Museum. There, visitors flocked to see the once-private treasures of the deposed aristocracy. During the 1800s, a series of European scholars further hyped the “Mona Lisa” up, fixating to a conspicuous degree on the subject's allure. In 1854, Alfred Dumesnil said that Mona Lisa’s smile imparted a “treacherous attraction.” A year later, Théophile Gautier wrote of her “mocking lips” and “gaze promising unknown pleasures.” And in 1869, Walter Pater described Mona Lisa as the embodiment of timeless feminine beauty. By the 20th century, the portrait was an iconic piece in one of the world’s most famous museums. But the “Mona Lisa” wasn’t yet a household name. It was Peruggia’s 1911 heist that helped it skyrocket to unprecedented fame. Having been contracted to make protective cases for the Louvre, it wasn’t totally inconceivable for Peruggia to be locked inside the museum. And, lucky for him, when a workman encountered him in the stairwell, he simply helped Peruggia open the door and let him walk out into the morning. The theft made international headlines. People gathered to see the blank space where the “Mona Lisa” once hung. The police interviewed Peruggia because he had worked at the Louvre, but they never considered him a suspect. Meanwhile, they interrogated Pablo Picasso because of his connection to a previous Louvre theft, but eventually let him go. For two years, Peruggia kept the painting in a false-bottom suitcase, then smuggled the “Mona Lisa” to Italy and arranged to sell it to a Florentine art dealer. Peruggia saw himself as an Italian patriot returning an old master’s work. But instead of being celebrated as such, he was immediately arrested. With the mystery solved, the “Mona Lisa” went back on display to large crowds, and newspapers took the story for a victory lap. In the following decades, conceptual artist Marcel Duchamp mocked it; Nazi art thieves pursued it; Nat King Cole sang about it; and museumgoers wielding stones, paint, acid, and teacups attacked it. More than 500 years after its creation— eyebrows and eyelashes long since faded— the “Mona Lisa” is protected by a bulletproof, earthquake-safe case. Now, it stands perhaps less as an exemplary Renaissance portrait and more as a testament to how we create and maintain celebrity.              
            

P2 2022-01-06 The myth of Loki’s monstrous children - Iseult Gillespie 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=2)
Odin, the king of Asgard, was plagued by nightmares. Three fearsome figures haunted his dreams: a massive, writhing shadow; a shambling, rotting corpse; and worst of all, a monstrous beast with a deadly bite. Night after night, the creatures besieged the king. And although their true forms were unknown to him, he could tell they were related to Asgard’s most persistent problem: Loki. Despite having settled down with his wife and sons, Loki had been sneaking off to visit the giantess Angrboda. And when the king learned this affair had produced three children, he was filled with unease. Odin summoned Thor and Tyr, two of his bravest warriors, to travel to Jotunheim to capture Loki’s secret children. Upon arriving at Angrboda’s home, the pair were immediately accosted by Loki's first child, a serpent named Jörmungandr. The God of Thunder dodged the snake’s venom and swiftly bound him to a pine tree. The second child, Hel, appeared as a glowing young woman from the right and a moldering corpse from the left. Her flesh flaked onto the ground as she silently submitted to her captors. Finally, the third child leapt at Tyr. The small wolf was fierce but harmless. Tyr playfully cuffed its claws and stowed the cub in his pocket. Back in Asgard, the warriors presented their prisoners and fearful recognition seized Odin's heart. Though these three were meager reflections of his dark dreams, the king was determined to dispose of them before his visions came true. First, he banished Jörmungandr to the sea at the edge of the world. Then he sent Hel deep below the earth to join her fellow corpses. But the wolf, named Fenrir, presented a challenge. He’d already grown strong enough to threaten the gods, so Odin took a more patient approach. For months, he supervised the creature, watching Fenrir grow from a cub to a wolf to a beast who spoke with the voice of a God. Tyr visited frequently and found Fenrir to be strong and clever. But as their bond deepened, Odin's fear only grew. One day, Odin forged his heaviest chains and hauled them to Fenrir with a challenge. He would bind the wolf to test his growing strength. Fenrir eagerly accepted the challenge and splintered the metal like old wood. Odin returned to the forge, crafting shackles that no man could lift alone. These sturdy chains gave Fenrir pause. But with an encouraging wink from Tyr, he accepted the challenge. The beast strained for a moment and then shattered his restraints into a thousand pieces. Desperate, Odin sought help from the most skilled makers of all: the Dwarves. Rather than metal, they sought the rarest ingredients; from feline footsteps and fish breath to the sinews of mountains and mighty bears. With these, the Dwarves crafted Gleipnir, an unbreakable chain in the guise of fine thread. When Odin challenged Fenrir a third time, the wolf laughed. But as he examined the thread more closely, Fenrir sensed Odin’s trickery and began to feel some fear himself. Fenrir struck a deal. He would accept the challenge, but only if a god kept their hand in his mouth throughout. With a heavy heart, Tyr volunteered. The gods bound the wolf and as he strained Gleipnir only grew tighter. Fenrir felt the agony of betrayal— not only from Odin, but from his reluctant friend. With a howl of fury, he bit through Tyr’s wrist and vowed to destroy Odin for tricking him. Watching his nightmare come to life, Odin thrust Tyr’s blade between Fenrir jaws, releasing a torrent of saliva that became a furious river. While the beast was not dead, he was bound, and Odin celebrated his victory over fate. But in truth, his actions had only sealed his doom. Beneath the waves, Jörmungandr grew to encircle the world. Hel rose to rule the dead as queen of the Underworld. And every day, Fenrir strained a little more against his chains, inching ever closer to his bloody revenge.              
            

P3 2022-01-11 Why is it so hard to escape poverty - Ann-Helén Bay 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=3)
Imagine that you’ve been unemployed and seeking work for months. Government benefit programs have helped you cover rent, utilities, and food, but you're barely getting by. Finally, you hear back about a job application. You receive your first paycheck in months, and things seem to be turning around. But there’s a catch. Your new job pays just enough to disqualify you from the benefit programs, and not enough to cover the same costs. To make things worse, you have to pay for transportation to work, and childcare while you’re at the office. Somehow, you have less money now than when you were unemployed. Economists call this demoralizing situation the welfare trap— one of the many different poverty traps affecting millions of people around the world. Poverty traps are economic and environmental circumstances that reinforce themselves, perpetuating poverty for generations. Some poverty traps are tied to an individual’s circumstances, like a lack of access to healthy food or education. Others can affect entire nations, such as cycles of corrupt government or climate change. But the cruel irony of welfare traps in particular is that they stem from the very policies designed to battle poverty. Most societies throughout history employed some strategies to help people in poverty meet basic needs. Before the 20th century, religious groups and private charities often led such initiatives. Today, these are called welfare programs, and they usually take the form of government-provided subsidies for housing, food, energy, and healthcare. Typically, these programs are means-tested, meaning that only people who fall below a certain income level are eligible for benefits. This policy is designed to ensure aid goes to those who need it most. But it also means people lose access as soon as they earn more than the qualification threshold, regardless of whether or not they're financially stable enough to stay there. This vicious cycle is harmful to both those in poverty and those outside of it. Mainstream economic models assume people are rational actors who weigh the cost and benefits of their options and choose the most advantageous path forward. If those in poverty know they'll gain no net benefit from working, they're incentivized to remain in government assistance. Of course, people work for many reasons, including societal norms and personal values. But income is a major incentive to pursuing employment. And when less people take on new jobs, the economy slows down, keeping people in poverty and potentially pushing people on the cusp of poverty over the edge. Some have suggested this feedback loop could be removed by eliminating government assistance programs altogether. But most agree the solution is neither realistic nor humane. So how can we redesign benefits in a way that doesn't penalize people for working? Many countries have tried different ways to circumvent this problem. Some allow people to continue receiving benefits for a given period after finding a job, while others phase out benefits gradually as income increases. These policies still remove some financial incentive to work, but the risk of a welfare trap is lower. Other governments provide benefits like education, childcare, or medical care equally across all their citizens. One proposed solution takes this idea of universal benefits even further. A universal basic income would provide a fixed benefit to all members of society, regardless of wealth or employment status. This is the only known policy that could entirely remove welfare traps, since any earned wages would supplement the benefit rather than replace it. In fact, by creating a stable income floor below which no one can fall, basic income might prevent people from falling into poverty in the first place. Numerous economists and thinkers have championed this idea since the 18th century. But for now, universal basic income remains largely hypothetical. Although it's been tried in some places on a limited scale, these local experiments don’t tell us much about how the policy would play out across an entire nation— or a planet. Whatever strategy governments pursue, solving the welfare trap requires respecting people’s agency and autonomy. Only by empowering individuals to create long-term change in their lives and communities can we begin to break the cycle of poverty.              
            

P4 2022-01-13 Why do cats have vertical pupils - Emma Bryce 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=4)
Peering into the eyes of different animals, you’ll see some extraordinarily shaped pupils. But why? It turns out that pupil shape is a powerful indicator of what role an animal plays in its ecosystem. Pupils mark the hollow opening in the iris, the eye’s band of pigmented muscle. They’re the portholes through which light enters the eye, where it then strikes the retina and activates light-sensitive cells, setting the process of vision in motion. Pupils are black because most of the light that enters them is absorbed. Their size changes in response to brightness, as well as certain drugs and emotional and mental states— but their basic form varies greatly among species. House cats, for one, are twilight hunters with vertically elongated pupils. In the dark, these structures expand dramatically, taking in the available light. When it’s bright, they shrink into slits. In fact, cat pupils are so flexible that their maximum area is 135 times greater than their minimum area— whereas our pupils only shrink and expand 15-fold. And because of how the slit pupil takes in light, it creates sharp, vertical contours. When the cat’s brain processes the visuals from each eye, the small but sharp differences between them help the cat judge the precise distance of its target. In fact, many other ambush hunters also have vertically elongated pupils— but mainly those whose eyes are located closer to the ground. This may be because these pupils are especially useful in perceiving objects at the relative short distances these animals tend to hunt. The world looks very different from behind the horizontally elongated pupils of many grazing and browsing animals, like goats. These pupils, situated on either side of the head, let horizontal bands of light in that give the goat a near-360-degree view and provide it with sharp, horizontal images. This helps goats detect any disruption to the horizon— alerting them to potential predators— while still enabling them to see ahead and detect obstacles as they make their escape. In fact, goats always keep their pupils aligned with the horizon, rotating their eyeballs in their sockets as they move their heads up and down. Meanwhile, nocturnal geckos have pupils that shrink into slits studded with pinholes in higher light conditions. Each pinhole projects a separate, sharp image onto the geckos retina. Scientists think that comparing these different inputs might help the gecko judge distance without having to move. And while they might have fooled you, mantises and other insects and crustaceans have “pseudopupils.” These aren’t optical structures; they’re optical illusions experienced by the observer. Mantises have compound eyes composed of thousands of light-sensing units. When some are aimed at you, they appear black because they’re absorbing most wavelengths of incoming light— but there’s no actual opening. So, why do we have round pupils? Elongated pupils help sharpen certain dimensions of an animal's vision. But scientists think that, for animals like us with circular pupils, this is a lower priority. Instead of seeing some elements of a scene in extreme focus, we see a larger picture in relative detail, which enables more general skills of observation. This may be especially helpful for foragers looking for food, hunters eyeballing and chasing their prey, and social animals recognizing other faces. As we peer at different pupils, patterns emerge. And yet there are exceptions. For example, Pallas’s cats and mongooses are both small ambush predators, but the Pallas’s cat has round pupils and mongooses have goat-like pupils. And we’ve only explored a few pupil shapes. Other animals have crescent- or heart-shaped pupils. And the cuttlefish has perhaps some of the most bizarre: their pupils are circular in the dark, but W-shaped in the light. So, what’s going on here? Well, wouldn’t we all like to know?              
            

P5 2022-01-18 The tragic myth of the Sun God's son - Iseult Gillespie 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=5)
Every morning, Helios harnessed his winged horses, unleashed his golden chariot, and set out across the sky. As the Sun God transformed the rosy dawn into the golden blooms of day, he thought of those far below. Years ago, he fell in love with a water nymph named Clymene. Together, they had seven daughters and one son named Phaethon. But Helios had a wandering eye. Clymene eventually left him, taking their children with her and marrying King Merops of Ethiopia. When Phaethon was little, Clymene told him tales of his divine father. As he grew into a young man, he took a special pride in knowing he was the Sun God’s child. However, one day, Epaphus, Phaethon’s peer who was himself the son of Zeus, sought to temper Phaethon’s arrogance, taunting that Helios wasn’t his father after all. With no absolute proof to the contrary, the possibility bore into Phaethon’s mind. He feared that his mother had lied. And who was he if not Helios’ son? When Phaethon confronted Clymene, she insisted that his father was the powerful Sun God. Nevertheless, Phaethon was seized by doubt. So, Clymene sent him off to ask Helios directly. Walking eastward, Phaethon entered the Sun God’s gleaming palace at last. Once his eyes adjusted to the brightness, he saw Helios’ radiant smile and open arms. When Phaethon expressed his skepticism that Helios was truly his father, the Sun God only beamed. To dispel all doubt, he would grant Phaethon anything he wanted. Basking in Helios’ glow, Phaethon felt there was but one way to prove their connection to the world— and himself. He needed to drive Helios’ chariot for a day. The Sun God’s smile dimmed. In his daily journey, he steered his fire-breathing horses through space at top speeds. The task required masterful control to ensure that the chariot raced along its precise celestial trajectory, with a thin margin separating stability from catastrophe. Even Zeus wasn’t confident in driving his chariot. Helios begged his son to reconsider, but Phaethon was steadfast, so the god prepared him for the journey. With a crack of the reins, he was off. In flight, Phaethon’s mortal insecurities fell away. But soon, the reins slackened in his hands. Unaccustomed to the feathery weight of a mortal, the radiant horses climbed higher and higher. The chariot whirled past constellations, narrowly missing the pincers of Scorpio and the arrow of Sagittarius. With the Sun so far away, the Earth darkened, and the seas began to crackle and freeze. Startled, Phaethon sharply pulled the reins. The horses lurched and the chariot plunged towards the Earth's surface. Lakes boiled and forests burned as Phaethon struggled to pull the chariot up, leaving deserts in his wake. Back on Mount Olympus, the Gods were panicking. Zeus saw that Phaethon was destined for a crash that would set the Earth ablaze. So, he hurled one of his mighty thunderbolts at the boy. The horses tore away, leaving Phaethon suspended in the heavens for just one moment, before he plummeted to the Earth, into the river Eridanus, never to resurface. Phaethon’s sisters gathered on the riverbank to weep, gradually metamorphosing into poplar trees that leaked precious amber into the water. Zeus repaired the Earth and created an everlasting memorial, strewing Phaethon’s likeness in the stars. Overcome by grief, Helios had hidden himself from the sky. But he soon returned, and every day from then on, as he raced through the heavens, he greeted his son. The constellation, known as “Auriga,” or “the charioteer,” stands as a reminder of a lost young man, and his bid to harness powers far greater than himself.              
            

P6 2022-01-20 Can you solve the birthday cake riddle - Marie Brodsky 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=6)
Your friend’s birthday is tomorrow, and he’s turning... well... the issue is that you’ve forgotten. He’s older than 1, but beyond that, he looks timeless. You’d believe it if he was 2 or 200. The birthday boy is a giant, and you're afraid that if your forgetfulness becomes known, you'll become part of the feast. The baker has meticulously prepared a small mountain range of a cake, and your job is to sculpt the giant’s age as the chocolate centerpiece. You would love to just count the candles on the cake, but you're much too small to see the top of it. Then you remember: the baker made an interior tunnel to activate the candles from below. While the giant is asleep, you can sneak in, count the candles and escape undetected. As night sets, you pull on a full bodysuit and brace yourself for vanilla cream. Anywhere in the tunnel, you can see whether the candle above you is lit, and can switch it on or off. Some are currently on, and others off, in no discernible pattern. The tunnel is a single loop, and in the dark you can’t tell its shape or size. You aren’t carrying anything with you, and any marks you make will disappear. You need a strategy. How can you count the candles? Pause here to figure it out for yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 There are a few ways to solve this problem. Let's start with the most straightforward. There’s exactly one way to mark a location in the tunnel: the state of the candle. You can mark the first candle you reach by lighting it or keeping it on. If you walk forward, you’ll eventually find another lit candle— either a new one or you’re starting one. The question is: how could you know which? Here’s one approach: turn it off and backtrack to the start by passing the same number of candles you passed on the way there. If the starting candle is now off, you’ve completed the loop and know the giant’s age! Otherwise, depart again, continuing until the next lit candle, testing if it’s your starting one and so on. This will work... eventually. But if the giant isn’t young, and many candles are on, you might have a marathon to run between now and sunrise. And you definitely don’t want to be in the cake when he starts digging in. So let’s look for a more efficient solution. How about testing a series of hypotheses about the giant's age? Suppose you guess he’s turning 10. You could light the starting candle, walk forward 10, switch or leave the destination candle off, and return. If the starting candle’s still on, 10 isn’t the answer. If it’s off, 10 could be right, but you may have made multiple loops— so 10′s factors 5 and 2 are also possibilities. Then you would have passed a repeating pattern— but that could have just been the starting arrangement. So what if you changed the candles on the way? If you turned them all on while walking from candle 1 to 11, switch that off, then turn back, the first unlit candle you find would tell you the exact candle count. And if you don't hit any extinguished candles, you'll know that the total must be higher than 10. You could then pick a larger guess and try again. To be systematic, you could increase your guess by the same number each time, say 4. If there were 99 candles, this method would take 24 roundtrips and involve visiting nearly 2,700 candles. But you don’t have to increase your guess linearly. For instance, you could double it, from 10 to 20 to 40, and discover the true number on your 5th trip after around 560 candles. Doubling allows you to reach high numbers quickly, while starting with small intervals in case there are only a few candles. After expecting a lengthy trek, you’re pleased to discover the giant is only turning 12. You hurry to change into slightly more inconspicuous clothing; chisel up some enormous chocolate numbers; and at the party, make your own wish: that you’re not downwind when your friend blows out his candles.              
            

P7 2022-01-25 Which animal has the best eyesight - Thomas W. Cronin 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=7)
The animal kingdom boasts an incredible diversity of eyes. Some rotate independently, while others have squiggly-shaped pupils. Some have protective lids, others squirt blood. But which creature has the best sight? Which sees best in the darkness? Which sees the most detail? Which animal sees the most color? And finally, which detects motion the fastest? All eyes take in sensory stimuli in the form of waves of light. To convert these into everything we see, eyes focus incoming light onto photoreceptors. These cells translate light into neural signals and send them to the brain, where they’re finally processed. The eyes that see best in darkness are those that capture as much available light as possible. Colossal squids have soccer-ball-sized eyes— the largest known in existence. These may help them spot the faint glow of sperm whales as they disturb light-producing organisms. Some fish have eyes that are unique among vertebrates because they use mirrors. For the brownsnout spookfish, each eye has an upward-facing lens and a downward-pointing mirror composed of tiny crystal plates that efficiently gather light. They can see up and down simultaneously, and may perceive distinct shapes, even in the ocean’s depths. Back on solid ground, arctic reindeer have adaptations to deal with months of darkness. The backs of reindeer eyes change color, from gold in summer to blue in winter. Their blue-backed eyes are about 1,000 times more sensitive to light. This may allow reindeer to recognize important things in the snow like urine and lichen. When it comes to the sharpest vision, birds of prey soar above the competition. To capture the most detail, an animal must have lots of photoreceptors in its eye, as well as increased visual processing power. Raptors have an especially deep fovea— a depression in the back of their eye that fits more photoreceptors. So, Peregrine falcons have vision that’s more than twice as sharp as a human’s. They’re able to zero in on a rabbit from more than three kilometers away. When crowning the creature with the best color vision, the picture gets complicated. Different photoreceptors are sensitive to specific waves of light, meaning the colors we see are largely determined by what kinds of photoreceptors we have. Presumably, the more types of color photoreceptors an animal has, the better its color vision. Dogs have just two types. Humans have three. And we are far outdone by some birds, fishes, and insects. Bluebottle butterflies have at least 15 types of photoreceptors. Seven of them are attuned to distinct blues and greens, which researchers think might help them track each other during high-speed chases. Mantis shrimp have a whopping 16 kinds of photoreceptors, with five reserved just for the ultraviolet, or UV, spectrum, which humans can’t see. But experiments suggest that the mantis shrimp’s ability to discriminate between colors is more limited than you might expect. Exactly how they use their complex eyes is a mystery. Meanwhile, with just four kinds of color photoreceptors, goldfish actually excel at discerning subtle differences in shades. Finally, insects have mastered the ability to see the world... on the fly. The fastest motion vision requires photoreceptors that quickly sense changes in light, and a brain that rapidly processes the information. A movie shot at 24 frames per second gives us the perception of near seamless motion. But insects would see a slideshow. Fly photoreceptors register changes 10 times faster than we do, making them especially hard to catch. These animals have some of the best vision we know of, but there's no winner across the board. Each category has different top contenders because vision requires tradeoffs. So, some eyes are highly specialized, while others, like ours, perform decently in many categories. From eyes the size of soccer balls to those that see in UV— the ways of looking at the world are as varied as the life forms in it.              
            

P8 2022-01-27 The myth of Anansi, the trickster spider - Emily Zobel Marshall 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1FU4y1F7Px?p=8)
As the sun sets on a plantation in Jamaica, children flock to Mr. Kwaku for a story. They all know he’s full of tales from Ghana, the land of their ancestors. But what they don’t know, Kwaku winks, is how their ancestors got those stories in the first place. Long ago, all stories belonged to Nyame, the all-seeing Sky God. People on Earth were bored and knew nothing about their history. But one creature decided enough was enough. Anansi, the tricky, shapeshifting spider, resolved to bring the stories down to Earth. He spun a web that stretched into the clouds and climbed up to confront the Sky God. Crouching at Nyame’s feet, Anansi shouted at the top of his lungs that he had come to take ownership of the world’s stories. Looking down from his golden stool, Nyame hooted with laughter at the spider’s absurd request. Nyame told Anansi that he could have all the stories he wished— but only if he could complete an impossible task. If Anansi brought him Osebo the Leopard, Onini the Python, Mmoboro the Hornet, and Mmoatia the Forest Spirit, then he could take the stories. Anansi humbly accepted. Nyame didn’t see him grinning as he scuttled away. Back on Earth, Anansi grabbed his magic bag and set to work. Anansi found Onini the Python bathing in the sun. Anansi scoffed that Onini couldn’t be the longest animal, saying he looked no longer than a piece of bamboo cane. Enraged, Onini stretched himself across the bamboo to prove his lengthiness. Anansi quickly bound him tight-tight to each end and placed him in his bag. Next, Anansi dug a great pit in the middle of the path Osebo the Leopard usually prowled, and covered it with banana leaves. Sure enough, mighty Osebo soon fell in. Anansi scolded Osebo for his carelessness, but offered to rescue him. As he helped Osebo out of the pit, Anansi swiftly jabbed him with his knife. Osebo fell back to the ground where Anansi wound him up tight-tight in spider thread. Then, Anansi heard Mmoboro and his hornets buzzing. He cautiously approached them. This would be tricky— their stings could make someone swell up and die— but Anansi knew they hated rain. He filled his mouth with water and spat it at the swarm. As they panicked, Anansi urged the hornets to shelter in his gourd, where they found themselves trapped. Anansi had one more task: to capture Mmoatia the elusive and mischievous Forest Spirit. She usually hid herself deep in the woods, but Anansi knew she was lonely. So, he made a little doll covered in sap and left it in her path. When she came upon it, Mmoatia spoke to the doll but became enraged when it didn’t answer. She hit the disrespectful doll and her small fists stuck to its sticky surface. Anansi wrapped Mmoatia up tight-tight and scooped her into his bag along with the other creatures. Triumphantly, he climbed his web back into the clouds. When the Sky God saw that Anansi had completed the impossible task, he was amazed. Nyame told Anansi that he had earned the world’s stories. Dancing for joy, Anansi gathered them up, stuffed the stories into his bag, and descended to Earth. There, he scattered the stories throughout the world for people to share. And they did, Kwaku tells the children. Generations have continued telling and reimagining Anansi’s stories even after being stolen from Africa and enslaved. Anansi may be small, but “cunning’s better than strong,” Kwaku says, and tells the children to take Anansi’s stories with them wherever they go. Looking at his audience, Kwaku knows that Anansi will persist as a symbol of resourcefulness and resistance in the face of oppression, and a testament to the enduring power of storytelling.              
            

P1 2022-02-01 Can you outsmart the fallacy that divided a nation - Elizabeth Cox 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=1)
What, you want my milkshake? Here. “It’s 1819. As the United States Congress prepares to make Missouri the 24th state in the Union, Representative James Tallmage Jr. delivers a speech. He says slavery is morally wrong, calling it an ‘abomination’ and a ‘monstrous scourge.’ He insists that ‘the extension of the evil must now be prevented,’ and that slavery shouldn’t be allowed in Missouri, or any new state.” Obviously. “Representative Tyler disagrees. He believes it is a state’s right to choose whether or not to allow slavery. He doesn’t think the federal government can prohibit slavery in any newly added states.” Whaaaaat? “Senator Thomas proposes what he sees as a compromise: Missouri will join the union along with another state, Maine. Slavery will be allowed in Missouri and prohibited in Maine. He also suggests drawing a line through territories yet to become states: slavery will be prohibited north of the line, and allowed south of it.” And this is where <i>I</i> have to draw the line. That’s better. Now, senators, congressmen, this Missouri compromise you are proposing is fundamentally flawed— flawed is putting it mildly. The compromise is based on the middle ground fallacy. By saying that half of the new territories should allow slavery while half prohibit it, you position the two viewpoints, pro-slavery and anti-slavery, as equally valid. But if one view is wrong, while the other is right, a compromise between them is still wrong. And one side is definitely wrong here: the pro-slavery side. The whole reason this government exists, the whole reason states exist at all, is to serve the people. That should include all people. Now, I know there are those among you who would argue otherwise, even among those in favor of ending slavery. In response to your many contorted arguments, all of them wrong, I offer this reminder: the idea that slavery is morally indefensible is not new to you. The founders of your country knew it and many even acknowledged it publicly, even those of them who enslaved other people themselves. It’s clear that the errors and delusions on this subject go far beyond the middle ground fallacy, but I call your attention to this particular fallacy because it can have dire consequences in many situations. Failure to recognize the fact that a compromise between two positions, one of which is morally indefensible, is also morally indefensible, has helped to perpetuate countless injustices large and small. Even well-intentioned people— which rest assured, I don’t mistake you for— fall prey to this fallacy, because you humans tend to view compromise as a virtue unto itself. “It’s March 1861. Seven states have seceded from the Union since Abraham Lincoln was elected president. As Lincoln takes office with four more states threatening to leave, he promises not to interfere with slavery in states where it exists, but to prohibit its expansion into new territories and states.” “It’s April 1861, and a Civil War has broken out over slavery.” Some things can't be resolved with a compromise.              
            

P2 2022-02-03 The myth of Gawain and the Green Knight - Dan Kwartler 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=2)
It was Christmas time in Camelot and King Arthur was throwing a party. The entire court was invited— save the wicked sorceress Morgan le Fay— and food and drink flowed freely. But in the midst of the revelry, the castle doors split open. A towering knight riding an emerald steed burst into the room, stunning the court into silence. Then, in a deep bellowing voice, he proposed a game. The Green Knight declared he would allow the bravest warrior present to attack him with his own axe. If they could strike him down, they would win his powerful weapon. However, the knight would be allowed to return that blow in one year and one day. Arthur and his knights were baffled. No man could survive such a strike. The Green Knight began to mock their leader’s hesitance, and Arthur stood to defend his honor. But as soon as he gripped the axe, another leapt to take his place. Arthur’s nephew, Sir Gawain, took the weapon instead. And with one swift strike, he beheaded the grinning knight. But the moment his skull met the ground, it began to laugh. The Green Knight collected his head and mounted his horse. As he rode off, his severed head reminded Gawain of their contract and told him to seek the Green Chapel one year hence. In the months that followed, Gawain tried to forget this bizarre vision. But despite the strangeness of the knight’s game, he was determined to act honorably. When the following winter approached, he set out— enduring foul weather and beastly encounters in his quest to find the mysterious Green Chapel. Finally, on Christmas Eve, he saw a shimmering castle on the horizon. The castle’s lord and lady were thrilled to help such an honorable guest, and informed him that the Green Chapel was only a short ride away. They implored Gawain to rest at their home until his meeting with the Green Knight. Thrilled at this news, Gawain happily accepted their offer. However, in exchange for their hospitality, the lord made a strange request. Over the next three days, he would go hunting and share his spoils every night. In return, Gawain must give him whatever he’d gained during his day at the castle. At first, Gawain was perplexed by these strange terms. But the lord’s meaning became quite clear the next day, when his wife tried to seduce Gawain. To rebuff the lady’s advances without offending her honor, Gawain allowed one kiss— which he then passed on to her husband in exchange for a slain dear. The next day, Gawain allowed two kisses, which he gave to the lord for a dead boar. But on the third day, the lady offered more than just three kisses. She presented a magical sash that would protect Gawain from the Green Knight’s blade. Gawain accepted immediately, but that evening, when the lord returned, the knight offered only three kisses with no mention of his enchanted gift. The next morning, Gawain rode out to the Green Chapel— a simple mound of earth where the Green Knight ominously sharpened an axe. With the sash’s protection, Gawain approached stoically— determined to honor his agreement. He bowed his head for the deadly blow, and with a massive swing, the Green Knight cut Gawain’s neck— inflicting nothing more than a flesh wound. Once more, Gawain was bewildered. Why hadn’t the sash protected him? And why hadn’t the knight killed him? Bursting into laughter, the Green Knight revealed himself to be the castle’s lord, and he’d been working with Morgan Le Fay to test the honor and bravery of Arthur’s knights. He was impressed with Gawain’s behavior, and he’d planned to spare his neck entirely— until Gawain concealed the sash. Filled with shame, Gawain returned to Camelot. But to his surprise, his companions absolved him of blame and celebrated his valor. Struggling to understand this strange journey, it seemed to Gawain that perhaps the whole world was playing a game— with rules more wild and bewildering than any man could understand.              
            

P3 2022-02-08 What is “normal” and what is “different” - Yana Buhrer Tavanier 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=3)
In 1945, two sculptures meant to represent the average man and woman in the United States went on exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History. Based on measurements taken from tens of thousands of young men and women, they were called Norma and Normman. That same year, a contest launched to find a living embodiment of Norma. Normal is often used as a synonym for “typical,” “expected,” or even “correct.” By that logic, most people should fit the description of normal. And yet, not one of almost 4,000 women who participated in the contest matched Norma, the supposedly “normal” woman. This puzzle isn’t unique to Norma and Normman, either— time and time again, so-called normal descriptions of our bodies, minds, and perceptions have turned out to match almost no one. And yet, a lot of the world is constructed around a foundation of normalcy. So what does normal actually mean— and should we be relying on it so much? In statistics, a normal distribution describes a set of values that fall along a bell curve. The average, or mean, of all the values is at the very center, and most other values fall within the hump of the bell. These curves can be tall, with most values inside a narrow range, or long and flat, with only a slight bias towards the average. What makes the distribution normal is that it follows this curved shape. Normal doesn’t describe a single data point, but a pattern of diversity. Many human traits, like height, follow a normal distribution. Some people are very tall or very short, but most people fall close to the overall average. Outside of statistics, normal often refers to an average— like the single number pulled from the fattest part of the bell curve— that eliminates all the nuance of the normal distribution. Norma and Norman’s proportions came from such averages. Applied to individuals, whether someone is considered normal usually depends on how closely they hew to this average. At best, such definitions of normal fail to capture variation. But oftentimes, our calculations of normal are even more flawed. Take the BMI— or Body Mass Index. BMI is a measure of weight relative to height, with different ratios falling into “underweight,” “normal weight,” “overweight,” and “obese” ranges. Generally, only BMIs that correspond to normal weight are considered healthy. But BMI is not always an accurate predictor of health, or even of what’s a healthy weight. BMI doesn’t take into account body fat percentage, body fat distribution, levels of physical activity, or blood pressure. And yet, those who fall outside the so-called normal range are commonly advised that losing or gaining weight will improve their health. When we apply a standard of normal to all of humanity that’s based on data from a non-representative slice, we’re not just choosing one point on the distribution, we’re choosing it from the wrong distribution. A lot of behavior science research draws from samples that are pretty WEIRD— meaning Western, educated, industrialized, rich, and democratic. These features can skew norms even in research that doesn’t have an obvious link to them. Take the famed Muller-Lyer optical illusion: it’s normal to think one of the two lines is longer, when they’re actually the same length. At least, it is if you’re an American undergraduate. A team of anthropologists and psychologists found other demographic groups were much less susceptible— members of the San people of the Kalahari weren’t susceptible to the illusion at all. When these limited or inaccurate definitions of normal are used to make decisions that impact people’s lives, they can do real harm. Historically, such concepts of normal have been hugely influential. The Eugenics Movement of the early 20th century weaponized the concept of normal, using it to justify exclusion, violence, and even extermination of those deemed not normal. To this day, people are often targeted and discriminated against on the basis of disabilities, mental health issues, sexual orientations, gender identities, and other features deemed “not normal.” But the reality is that the differences in our bodies, minds, perceptions, and ideas about the world around us— in short, diversity— is the true normal.              
            

P4 2022-02-10 Why doesn't everyone have a jetpack - Richard Browning 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=4)
On April 12, 1961, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin piloted a 2,400 kilogram spacecraft in humanity’s first manned space flight. One week later, Bell Aerosystems debuted another advancement in aviation: the gas-powered rocket pack. Capable of flying 35 meters in just 13 seconds, the rocket pack thrilled onlookers. But the device’s engineers were less enthused. Despite years of cutting-edge work, they knew this short flight was all the rocket pack could muster. So why was a massive spacecraft easier to send flying than a single pilot? According to Newton's laws of motion, the physics behind flight are actually quite simple. All you need is a powerful enough upward force to counteract the downward force of gravity. And since objects with more mass experience stronger gravitational forces, lighter objects should be easier to get off the ground. However, modern jet engines, our primary tool for flight, actually get more efficient the larger they are. Jet engines work by sucking in huge volumes of air, and then expelling that air as quickly as possible. While most of this actually bypasses the inner machinery, it still contributes to a huge portion of the engine's thrust. But the air that does enter the engine’s core gets compressed by a series of tightly packed blades. That compressed air then enters the combustion chamber, where it is injected with jet fuel and ignited. The heat causes the compressed air to rapidly expand, bursting out of the exhaust and propelling the engine forward. As air leaves the engine it also turns a turbine embedded in the exhaust nozzle. This turbine powers the fan and the compressor blades, creating a cycle that maintains thrust for as long as there’s fuel to burn. The more air an engine can take in and expel the more thrust it can produce. On a modern jet, the diameter of a frontal fan is larger than a truck. And even spinning at relatively low speeds, these engines produce more than enough thrust to maintain the necessary speed for flying a passenger aircraft. But smaller engines simply can’t take in this much air. For most of the 20th century, engineers couldn’t produce an engine small and light enough for an individual to wear, yet powerful enough to lift itself alongside its pilot and fuel. Designs could only carry enough fuel for 30 seconds of flight, and when airborne, the powerful thrust in a single direction made jetpacks difficult and dangerous to control. But the new millennium brought advances in materials, manufacturing, and computing technology, including systems which could manage fuel injection with incredible precision. Together, these dramatically improved the fuel efficiency and power-to-weight ratio of jet engines. By 2016, micro-engines the size of a coffee can and weighing less than 2kg could achieve 220 Newtons of force. This was when an English engineer named Richard Browning saw the opportunity to create a new kind of lightweight jetpack. In addition to a single engine strapped to the back, this so-called Jet Suit involved a pair of micro-engines on each arm to split and balance the thrust. Working with the back engine, these provided three-points of stability, which some pilots describe as being akin to comfortably leaning on crutches while a friend supports your back. It may seem complicated to manage all these engines at once, but many pilots master it in less than a day with the help of another advanced computer system— their brain. Various brain regions and multiple sensory systems perfectly calibrate our sense of balance and spatial orientation, helping pilots smoothly direct their flights. Slight movements of the arms allow operators to increase and decrease lift, quickly turn in mid-air, or glide forward for up to 5 minutes. This technology is still fairly new, and without major advances in fuel efficiency and engine technology, don’t expect to have a jetpack of your own any time soon. But if reaching for the sky already got us this far, who knows where we'll fly next?              
            

P5 2022-02-14 The myth of Narcissus and Echo - Iseult Gillespie 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=5)
Hera, queen of the gods, was on the edge of her throne. A mountain nymph named Echo, renowned for her charm and chatter, was regaling her with a sensational story. But what Hera didn’t know was that Echo was merely distracting her while her husband, Zeus, was frolicking about with the other nymphs. Unfortunately for Echo, Zeus got sloppy, and Hera realized what was going on. Enraged by Echo’s duplicity— and powerless to stop her husband’s adultery— Hera decided to silence the nymph for good. From then on, Echo could no longer enrapture listeners with her stories; she could only repeat the last words another said. As her conversations became dull and her company undesirable, Echo grew dispirited. One day, while Echo was drifting through the woods, she spotted a young man hunting deer. It was Narcissus, the stunningly beautiful son of a river god and water nymph. After his birth, a seer had given his mother a cryptic prophecy: Narcissus would live a long life— but only if he never really knew himself. No one was sure exactly what to make of this. And, in the meantime, Narcissus grew into a proud youth. His good looks attracted many admirers. But he preferred to amble through life on his own and left a trail of broken hearts in his wake. Seeing Narcissus there, Echo was filled with longing. Unable to initiate a conversation, she walked after him. Soon, Narcissus heard a rustle, and called out, “Who goes there? Who are you?” Echo revealed herself, but only repeated the word “you,” making her tone as endearing as possible as she went to hold him. Agitated, Narcissus said, “Let me go, I can’t stay.” Echo could only counter with a plea for him to do so. Freeing himself from her embrace, Narcissus snapped, “I’d rather die than have you love me!” To which Echo could only cry, “Love me... love me.” Narcissus told Echo once more to leave him alone, then faded from her gaze. Echo wandered to a cave. And gradually, her heart grew heavy and her body frail until all that was left of her was her voice, which the wind carried to vast, empty places. Forever after, it could be heard reverberating through hollow caves and rebounding across lonely clearings. But this wasn’t even the first time heartbreak over Narcissus had proven fatal. A young man named Ameinias had also been cruelly rejected by Narcissus. Before his death, he prayed to Nemesis, the goddess of revenge, that Narcissus would also one day know the pain of love. She heard Ameinias’ pleas and, upon witnessing Echo’s fate, decided that it would be the final affront. It was time for retribution. So, Nemesis set Narcissus towards a clear, glassy pool. As he bent towards the water to drink, he caught sight of a hauntingly beautiful young man. Never before had Narcissus seen himself with such clarity. He spent the day acquainting himself with every glinting angle and glowing curl then passed the evening gazing at his reflection by moonlight and sleeping with his fingers grazing the water. Days wore on, and Narcissus never parted from his one true love. When he reached out, his double reached for him; and when he leaned in to bestow a kiss, he also tilted his face. But when he tried to hold the bewitching figure, it disappeared. At last, Narcissus knew the agony of unrequited love. Eating and drinking nothing, Narcissus too wasted away. His neck ached from bending over the lake, and his legs became rooted to the grass. When the wood nymphs finally passed by, all that was left of him was a white and yellow flower bending towards its reflection. From then on, it was known as narcissus.              
            

P6 2022-02-17 The dark history of the overthrow of Hawaii - Sydney Iaukea 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=6)
It was January 16th, 1895. Two men arrived at Lili’uokalani’s door, arrested her, and led her to the room where she would be imprisoned. A group had recently seized power and now confiscated her diaries, ransacked her house, claimed her lands, and hid her away. Lili’uokalani was Hawaii’s queen. And she ruled through one of the most turbulent periods of its history. 75 years earlier, American missionaries first arrived in Hawaii. They quickly amassed power, building businesses and claiming arable land that they transformed into plantations. They worked closely with the ali’i, or sacred Hawaiian nobility closely linked to the Gods. The ali’i appointed missionaries to government roles where they helped establish Hawaii as a sovereign kingdom with a constitutional monarchy. But once certain business opportunities emerged— namely, the prospect of exporting sugar to the US tariff-free— some of their descendants shifted positions. They formed a political group known as “the Missionary Party” and began plotting to annex Hawaii, bringing it under US control. Lili’uokalani and her siblings were born into an ali’i family. In 1874, her brother, Kalākaua, ascended the throne, but thirteen years into his reign, the emerging threat crystallized. The Missionary Party called a meeting where an all-white militia surrounded and forced the king to sign new legislation. Later called the Bayonet Constitution, it stripped Native Hawaiians of their rights, diminished the monarchy’s power, and ceded control to this group of white businessmen. Four years later, King Kalākaua died, heartbroken, Lili’uokalani said, “by the base ingratitude of the very persons whose fortunes he had made.” Prepared to fight, she assumed the throne. Despite death threats and rumors of insurgency, Queen Lili’uokalani was determined to restore power to her people— an estimated two thirds of whom had lost their voting rights. Flooded with requests for change, she authored a new constitution. But before she introduced it, the so-called “Committee of Safety,” a new organization that consisted of many Missionary Party members, hatched another plot. Under the false pretense that this new constitution endangered American property and lives, they staged a coup on January 17th, 1893. More than 160 US Marines marched to the palace, where the “Committee of Safety” removed Queen Lili’uokalani from office. Thousands of Hawaiian people protested, some wearing hat bands reading, “Aloha ’Āina,” or “love of the nation.” The alleged “Provisional Government” declared Hawaii a Republic the following year. They proclaimed that Hawaiians couldn’t vote or be government employees without signing a new “oath of allegiance.” Many refused. The following year, some of Lili’uokalani’s supporters attempted a counterrevolution. The Republic responded brutally, jailing hundreds and sentencing six people to death. In exchange for their release, the Republic made Lili’uokalani sign a document that claimed to relinquish her throne, and they imprisoned her in the palace. Under constant guard, she composed songs expressing her love for her people and began making a patchwork quilt that told the story of her life. While she was only allowed news that had been reviewed by her jailers, her supporters often brought her bouquets from the garden she’d dedicated to them, wrapped in newspaper. After 8 months, Lili’uokalani was placed under house arrest. As soon as it was lifted, she traveled to Washington, D.C. with Hawaiian nationalists and over 20,000 signatures. There they successfully convinced Congress to halt the Republic’s annexation treaty. But the following year, the Spanish-American War began. Seeing Hawaii as a strategic military base, President William McKinley declared it a US territory on July 7th, 1898— breaking international law and devastating Queen Lili’uokalani and her people. She spent the rest of her life petitioning for the restoration of her lands, Native Hawaiian rights, and national liberation. When she died in 1917, these dreams were unrealized. A member of the group that forced Queen Lili’uokalani out of office once declared, “If we are ever to have peace and annexation the first thing to do is obliterate the past.” They failed at this goal. Queen Lili’uokalani left a resilient legacy: Her commitment to her land and people never wavered and many Hawaiians continue to fight in her memory. Speaking of Hawaii’s children, Queen Lili’uokalani said, “It is for them that I would give the last drop of my blood.”              
            

P7 2022-02-22 Building the impossible - Golden Gate Bridge - Alex Gendler 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=7)
In the mid-1930s, two familiar spires towered above the morning fog. Stretching 227 meters into the sky, these 22,000-ton towers would help support California’s Golden Gate Bridge. But since they were currently in Pennsylvania, they first had to be dismantled, packaged, and shipped piece by piece over 4,500 kilometers away. Moving the bridge’s towers across a continent was just one of the challenges facing Charles Ellis and Joseph Strauss, the project's lead engineers. Even before construction began, the pair faced all kinds of opposition. The military feared the bridge would make the important harbor an even more vulnerable target. Ferry companies claimed the bridge would steal their business, and residents wanted to preserve the area's natural scenery. Worse still, many engineers thought the project was impossible. The Golden Gate Strait was home to 96-kilometer-per-hour winds, swirling tides, an endless blanket of fog, and the earthquake-prone San Andreas fault. But Strauss was convinced the bridge could be built; and that it would provide San Francisco’s commuters more reliable passage to the city. He was, however, a bit out of his depth. Strauss’s initial plans to span the strait used a cantilever bridge. This kind of bridge consists of a single beam anchored at one end and extended horizontally like a diving board. Since these bridges can only extend so far before collapsing under their own weight, Strauss’s design used two cantilevers, linked by a structure in the middle. But Ellis and his colleague Leon Moisseif convinced Strauss to pursue a different approach: the suspension bridge. Where a cantilever bridge is supported from one end a suspension bridge suspends its deck from cables strung across the gap. The result is a more flexible structure that’s resilient to winds and shifting loads. This kind of design had long been used for small rope bridges. And in the 1930s, advanced steel manufacturing could create cables of bundled wire to act as strong steel rope for large-scale construction. At the time, the Golden Gate Bridge was the longest and tallest suspension bridge ever attempted, and its design was only possible due to these innovations. But cables and towers of this size could only be built at large steelworks on the country’s east coast. While the recently completed Panama Canal made it possible to ship these components to California, reassembling the towers on site didn’t go quite as smoothly. It was relatively easy to find a stable, shallow foundation for the north tower. But building the south tower essentially required erecting a ten-story building underwater. Since the strait’s depth prevented them drilling or digging the foundations, bombs were dropped on the ocean floor, creating openings for pouring concrete. A seawall was built to protect the site from powerful currents, and workers operated in 20-minute shifts between tides. The towers had so many compartments that each worker carried a set of plans to prevent getting lost. And at one point, an earthquake rocked the south tower nearly 5 meters in each direction. Strauss took worker safety very seriously, requiring hard hats at all times and stretching a safety net below the towers. But not even these precautions could prevent an entire scaffolding platform from falling in 1937, carrying ten workers to their deaths. Once the towers were complete, workers spun the cables in place, hung suspenders at 50-foot intervals, and laid down the concrete roadway. The bridge was finished, but there was still one more task ahead: painting it. After production, the steel had been coated with a reddish paint primer it maintained throughout construction. But the Navy had been pushing hard to paint the bridge a tactical black and yellow. Consulting architect Irving Morrow actually thought the primer itself paired nicely with the strait’s natural backdrop— and he wasn’t alone. Citing numerous letters from locals, Morrow’s 30-page pitch to paint the bridge “international orange” beat out the Navy’s plans. And today, this iconic color still complements the strait’s blue water, green hills, and rolling fog.              
            

P8 2022-02-24 Can you solve the Big Bang riddle - James Tanton 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV14F411b7RG?p=8)
It’s moments after the Big Bang and... wow, you’re still reeling. You’re a particle of matter, amidst a chaotic stew of forces, fusion, and annihilation. If you’re lucky and avoid being destroyed by antimatter, you'll be the seed of a future galaxy. You gravitate towards a ring of particles that have devised a game. A friendly gluon explains: there are an equal number of matter and antimatter particles. At the blow of a cosmic whistle, every particle of matter with a particle of antimatter to its immediate right will merge with that anitparticle to—poof!— both annihilate. The circle will tighten to make a smaller circle, and the process will repeat until just one particle of matter remains. They’d been waiting for someone like you, as with a perfectly balanced setup, no one would be left in the end. As guest of honor, they’ll let you choose where to insert yourself into the ring. What spot should you choose to make sure you’re the last particle standing? Pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself. Explanation in 3 Explanation in 2 Explanation in 1 A general strategy can’t rely on knowing what the circle looks like. But we can rely on how it should end: with you as the last particle standing. Let's start there and work backwards. Just before this, there were also some matter/antimatter pairs. Here’s 3 for the sake of example. This right away suggests a strategy. You can simulate annihilations in any circle by marking all pairs of adjacent particles, then the newly adjacent pairs, and so on, to reach this final set. If you map them back to the original circle, standing to the immediate left of those final matter particles or the immediate right of final antiparticles means you’ll reach this endgame state and survive. So here are the safe spots in all three given circles. You find a good position and experience the bittersweet radiance of your new friends pairing off and becoming pure energy. You’re soon left alone. But wait a minute! Today’s the big day. You’re an intelligent creature of matter amidst a chaotic crowd of alien races. Every hundred million years, sentient species of the galaxy send emissaries to the core to pay tribute to the galactic seed you’re all descended from. Each of the 27,182 attendees has brought a cube of matter and a cube of antimatter. Except you: you’ve been chosen to represent your famed ancestor and reenact its moment of choice. Everyone places their matter and antimatter cubes in a ring. Your job: pick a spot to stand where you won’t be annihilated. The ring is too large to simulate annihilations like before, but you have a programmable device you can point at spots between cubes. The device can detect the full sequence of cubes around the circle, count cubes of each type, perform arithmetic, and carry out simple logical commands. How do you program your device to identify safe spots? Pause to figure it out for yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 Let’s go back to our earlier approach: running time backwards starting from you alone, then a sequence of pairs of cubes. A second step back produces more pairs nestled between existing cubes. As does the next, and the next, each adding nestled pairs like a Russian doll of fundamental particles. A pair never forms around an existing cube because only adjacent cubes annihilate. Your survival depends on the matter particles to your right buffering you from antimatter. We can mathematically model this idea with a sum, starting with your +1. For instance, this would be +1+1-1+1-1. From your perspective, no matter how far you look, this sum will be positive. Considering how we introduced pairs, this makes sense— each inserted plus was immediately followed by a minus. If we examine the starting position of any other matter cube, its sum will eventually hit zero. The moment that happens marks its exact annihilation partner. Again, our introduction of pairs reflects this; nestled pairs only delay the inevitable for the outer cubes. We can now program the device. Start a running sum with +1, representing you, and scan around the circle. For each matter cube, add one, and for each antimatter cube, subtract one. If all 54,364 cubes have been scanned without the sum ever hitting 0, that spot is safe. Nothing left to do but enjoy the fireworks.              
            

P1 2022-03-01 What you might not know about the suburbs - Kevin Ehrman-Solberg and 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=1)
On October 21st, 1909, 125 residents of an affluent Minneapolis neighborhood approached William Simpson, who’d just bought a plot in the area, and told him to leave. The Simpsons would be the second Black family in the otherwise white neighborhood,  where they intended to build a home. When the Simpsons refused offers to buy them out, their neighbors tried blocking their home’s construction. They finally moved into their house, but the incident had a ripple effect. Just a few months after the mob harassed the Simpsons, the first racially restrictive covenant was put into place in Minneapolis. Covenants are agreements in property deeds that are intended to regulate how the property is to be used. Beginning in the mid-1800s, people in the United States and elsewhere began employing them in a new way: specifically, to racially restrict properties. They wrote clauses into deeds that were meant to prevent all future owners from selling or leasing to certain racial and ethnic groups, especially Black people. Between 1920 and 1950, these racial covenants spread like wildfire throughout the US, making cities more segregated and the suburbs more restricted. In the county encompassing Minneapolis, racial covenants eventually appeared on the deeds to more than 25,000 homes. Not only was this legal, but the US Federal Housing Administration promoted racial covenants in their underwriting manual. While constructing new homes, real estate developers began racially restricting them from the outset. Developments were planned as dream communities for American families— but for white people only. In 1947, one company began building what became widely recognized as the prototype of the postwar American suburb: Levittown, New York. It was a community of more than 17,000 identical homes. They cost around $7,000 each and were intended to be affordable for returning World War II veterans. But, according to Levittown’s racial covenants, none of the houses could “be used or occupied by any person other than members of the Caucasian race,” with one exception: servants. Between 1950 and 1970, the population of the American suburbs nearly doubled as white people flocked to more racially homogenous areas in a phenomenon known as “white flight.” The suburbs spread, replacing native ecosystems with miles of pavement and water-guzzling lawns. And their diffuse layout necessitated car travel. American automobile production quadrupled between 1946 and 1955, cementing the nation's dependence on cars. Federal programs like the G.I. Bill offered American veterans favorable lending rates for buying homes. But it was difficult for people of color to take advantage of such resources. Racial covenants restricted them from certain neighborhoods. And, at the same time, government programs labelled neighborhoods of color bad investments and often refused to insure mortgages in those areas. Therefore, banks usually wouldn’t lend money to people purchasing property in neighborhoods of color— a practice that became known as redlining. So, instead of owning homes that increased in value over time, creating wealth that could be passed to future generations, many people of color were forced to spend their income on rent. And even when they were<i> </i>able to buy property, their home’s value was less likely to increase. The suburbs boasted cul-de-sacs and dead ends that minimized traffic. Meanwhile, city planners often identified redlined neighborhoods as inexpensive areas for industrial development. So, the massive freeway projects of the mid-20th century disproportionately cut through redlined neighborhoods, accompanied by heavy industry and pollution. As a result, many neighborhoods of color experience higher rates of drinking water contamination, asthma, and other health issues. People targeted by racial covenants increasingly challenged them in court and, in 1968, they were finally banned under the Fair Housing Act. But the damage had been done. Racial covenants concentrated wealth and amenities in white neighborhoods and depressed the conditions and home values in neighborhoods of color. As of 2020, about 74% of white families in the US owned their homes, while about 44% of Black families did. That gap is greatest in Minnesota’s Twin Cities. Across the country, neighborhoods remain segregated and 90% of all suburban counties are predominantly white. Some landlords, real estate agents, and lenders still discriminate against people based on race— rejecting them, steering them to and away from certain neighborhoods, or providing inaccessibly high interest rates. Gentrification and exclusionary zoning practices also still displace and keep people of color out of certain neighborhoods. Racial covenants are now illegal. But they can still be seen on many housing deeds. The legacy of racial covenants is etched across the pristine lawns of the American suburbs. It’s a footnote in the demographic divides of every city. And it’s one of the insidious architects of the hidden inequalities that shape our world.              
            


P2 2022-03-03 The ingredient in almost everything you eat - Francesca Bot 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=2)
In the 1930s, American industrialist Henry Ford had one overwhelming obsession: soybeans. He extracted their oil to make enamel for painting his cars. He crushed them into powder to make plastic parts. And he encouraged American farmers to grow as much of the plant as possible. But he wasn’t just feeding soy to machines. At the Chicago World’s Fair, he hosted a soy-centric feast. The ingredient had been a staple in Asian cuisine for centuries, but Ford’s dinner— full of soy substitutes for dairy, meat and wheat— took the integration of soy into food a step further. Today, soy is in so many foods that most people consume it every day without even knowing it. So what makes soybeans so versatile? And is our global obsession healthy or harmful? Soybeans have been cultivated in Asia as early as 5,500 years ago, but since then they’ve spread across the globe. Part of soy’s success is that the crop can be grown easily and cheaply in variable conditions. And once they’re grown, soybeans have an incredibly high density of proteins and fats; ingredients which in recent years have been used in everything from mayonnaise to biodegradable plastic. The ideal method for separating these components depends on what you’re trying to extract. To isolate soy proteins, dehulled beans are sometimes pressed through rollers to create thin flakes, and then steeped in water to draw out the proteins. Alternatively, whole beans can be simply soaked and ground into a whitish, protein rich liquid. In both cases, the resulting substance can be used to make spongy foods like tofu or filtered to produce soymilk. And at the industrial scale, these proteins can be used in various ways to help make processed foods. Soy fats may be even more versatile. In one extraction method, soybeans are dried, cleaned, and then fed into an extruder. This machine simultaneously heats and presses the beans, producing a liquid containing soy oil and other fatty components. By adding water and spinning the mixture, components are separated into two parts: refined soy oil for things like salad dressing, and a substance called lecithin. Lecithin is made of molecules called phospholipids, which have a phosphate head that attracts water and a tail that attracts fats. These features make phospholipids excellent for blending ingredients that naturally separate from each other. This process is called emulsification and soy lecithins are used as an emulsifying agent in a huge variety of foods. For example, during chocolate production phospholipids attach to both the fatty components of the cocoa butter and the water-soluble sugar particles, making them easier to combine into a smooth mixture. A similar process happens in powdered products that need to be instantly rehydrated. Soy lecithin bonds with the water and helps the powder disperse more quickly. While there are other plants we can process for lecithin and proteins, soy’s mild taste and widespread availability have earned it a place in thousands of food products. But is it unhealthy to be eating this much soy? Not really. Soybeans contain many of the essential amino acids our bodies need, making them one of the best ways to get these proteins without eating meat. And the beans’ fat content is largely made up of so-called “good” fats— poly and mono-unsaturated fatty acids, which can decrease cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart disease. There are some compounds in soy that may inhibit our body’s absorption of various minerals. And about 0.3% of the general population has a soy allergy, which can be severe in rare cases. But for many people, the biggest complaint about soy consumption is the occasional increase in flatulence. Outside our bodies however, soy is much more worrying. To accommodate the soy farms needed for heavy industry, processed foods and livestock feed, huge swaths of land have been deforested. Between 2006 and 2017, roughly 22,000 square kilometers of the Amazon were cleared for soy production. In some regions, this has also led to the displacement of farmers and indigenous communities. So if we want to keep using soy and all its byproducts, we’ll need to find a way to do it humanely and sustainably.              
            

P3 2022-03-08 The myth of the moon goddess - Cynthia Fay Davis 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=3)
The moon goddess, Ix Chel, patiently watched a spider at work. She could make use of it skills, she thought. Through careful observation and imitation, she soon became a skilled weaver. The sun god, Kinich Ahau, was impressed with her work, and admired her from afar. But the goddess’ grandfather was very possessive and would not let the sun god anywhere near his beloved granddaughter. To get past the grandfather, the sun god disguised himself as a hummingbird. As he took a drink of tobacco flower honey, the moon goddess spotted him and asked her grandfather to capture the bird for her. The grandfather shot the disguised sun god with a blow dart, stunning him. Ix Chel nursed the wounded bird back to health, and soon, he was able to spread his wings and fly again. He transformed back into the sun god and invited the moon goddess to escape with him. The two rowed away in a canoe, but the grandfather called upon the powerful storm god to help him stop them. Sensing danger, the moon goddess jumped from the canoe into the water below and transformed into a crab. But the storm god had already thrown a lightning bolt, which hit the crab and pierced her through her heart, killing her. Hundreds and hundreds of dragonflies gathered, buzzing songs and fluttering their transparent wings. They formed a thick, magical cloud over the moon goddess’ body. For thirteen days the dragonflies cut, cleaned, and hollowed thirteen logs. On the thirteenth night, the logs burst open, and the moon goddess emerged— alive and more brilliant than ever. The sun god wasted no time in proposing marriage. The moon goddess happily agreed. Side-by-side, they were ready to light up the sky with their powerful rays. Unfortunately, the story doesn’t end there. The sun god’s brother visited often. Sensing he was also in love with Ix Chel, the sun god grew jealous, and began to mistreat her. One day, Ix Chel was sitting on the riverbank, furious at her husband. A huge bird came gliding down and offered to take her to the high mountain peaks. To get away from the cruel sun god, she agreed. There, she met the king of the vultures. The vulture king was kind and fun-loving— a much better partner than the violent sun god. The moon goddess made a new home with him in the mountains. When the sun god heard, he was distraught. He hid inside a deer carcass until a hungry vulture came swooping down, then hopped onto its back and rode to the mountain kingdom where the moon goddess now lived with the vulture king. He begged her to come home with him, apologizing for how he had treated her. The kind and forgiving goddess took pity on him and agreed to go back. But Kinich Ahau soon began to show his true nature again. He struck her, scarring her face and dimming her bright rays. Ix Chel flew off into the dark. From then on, she vowed to appear only at night. She befriended the stars, and combined her pale blue rays with their light to guide night travelers to safety. She used her healing gift, which she had once used on the wounded sun god, to cure people who were ill. Today, Ix Chel is so widely known that she’s become a symbol of Maya culture. But archeological evidence suggests that for the ancient Maya Ix Chel and the moon goddess were separate deities. In the retellings of Maya people and the records of anthropologists, the two have merged so that Ix Chel’s story extends beyond the limits of the historical record. Her story, like all myths, isn’t just one story: the variations, ancient and modern, speak to what people value, and how they see themselves in their mythological heroes.              
            

P4 2022-03-10 The movement that inspired the Holocaust - Alexandra Minna Stern and 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=4)
As a new widow, Sarah Rosas Garcia was already struggling to support her nine children when her oldest daughter was picked up by local authorities. Andrea Garcia had been accused of skipping school and being sexually promiscuous, so the authorities responsible for juvenile delinquents committed her to a state hospital. After being administered an IQ test and assigned a low score, the doctors made their verdict. They told Sara her 19-year-old daughter would be sterilized to prevent passing on what the state saw as a mental deficiency. This horrific tale may sound like a story from an authoritarian regime. But in fact, it took place in Southern California in 1938. And Andrea Garcia was one of thousands of poor women of color targeted by the state’s relentless campaign of eugenics. Since ancient Greece, there have been efforts to control human populations via reproduction, retaining some traits and removing others. But in the 19th century, the discovery of evolution and genetics inspired a new scientific movement dedicated to this endeavor. In 1883, British scientist Sir Francis Galton named this idea eugenics, drawn from the Greek word for “to be well born.” This wave of modern eugenicists included prominent scientists and progressive reformers who believed they could improve society by ensuring that only desirable traits were passed down. However, their definition of what traits were and were not desirable was largely determined by the prejudices of their era. Entire categories of people were considered “unfit” for reproduction, including immigrants, people of color and people with disabilities. Meanwhile, their ideal genetic standard reflected the movement’s members: white Europeans of Nordic or Anglo-Saxon descent. As the influence of eugenics spread in the early 20th century, many countries restricted immigration and outlawed interracial unions. These measures to improve so-called “racial hygiene” were taken to their horrific conclusion in Nazi Germany. The Nazi eugenics campaign systematically killed millions of Jews, as well as individuals from other groups, including Roma, gay men, and people with disabilities. Outside their extreme brutality, however, Nazi eugenic policies reflected similar standards across the globe. Throughout the mid-20th century, many countries enacted eugenics policies, and governments in Sweden, Canada, and Japan forcibly sterilized thousands of individuals. Sterilization was exceptionally common in the US. From 1907 to 1979, US policies enforced the sterilization of over 60,000 people, with 32 states passing laws that mandated sterilization for men and women deemed “mentally defective.” This label was typically applied based on superficial mental health diagnoses and the results of IQ tests, which were linguistically and culturally biased against most immigrant populations. These racist standards were particularly problematic in California. From 1920 to 1945, Latina women were 59% more likely to be sterilized than other women. And the rate of sterilizations in California was incredibly high— this single state performed over one third of the country’s sterilization operations. Such was the case of Andrea Garcia, whose story reflects thousands of individuals with similar fates. With the help of famed civil rights lawyer David Marcus, Andrea’s mother argued that California’s sterilization law violated the US Constitution, depriving Andrea of her rights to equal protection under the law. However, while one of the three judges overseeing the case voted to spare Andrea, the other two did not. Records suggests it’s possible Andrea escaped the impending surgery, but many more victims of these policies did not. Although eugenics acquired negative connotations after the horrors of World War II, many of its practices, including sterilization, continued for decades. By the late 1960s, research into human genetics was more nuanced, and bioethics had begun to blunt eugenics’ influence. Yet Sweden and the US continued to pursue involuntary sterilization well into the 70s. Finally, class action lawsuits and protest marches in the US galvanized lawmakers, and California’s sterilization laws were finally repealed in 1979. Unfortunately today, the legal and illegal sterilization of many oppressed communities still continues around the globe.              
            

P5 2022-03-15 How pigeons took over the world - Elizabeth Carlen and Joanna Moles 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=5)
It’s the morning of June 12th, 1944 and a pigeon named Paddy is making an epic 368 kilometer journey. He manages to dodge Nazi falcons then beats on through stormy weather, flying an average of 79 kilometers per hour for almost five hours straight. Paddy’s carrying the first news of the D-Day invasion back to England. He wins a medal for gallantry for this accomplishment. Paddy was one of around 250,000 pigeons used by the British during World War II to speedily transport secret messages. In fact, pigeon delivery systems are ancient human practices. Seeing their meat as a protein source and their nitrogen-rich poop as the perfect fertilizer, humans brought pigeons into captivity as far back as 10,000 years ago. We then tapped into other traits. Pigeons are naturally speedy and possess a powerful homing instinct that drives them to navigate long distances back to the location they consider “home.” So we began developing pigeon posts and breeding and training them for racing. In a hobby called “pigeon fancying,” people selected for traits like head plumage and fabulously feathered feet. As we carried pigeons around the world, they escaped or were released, forming the wild urban flocks we're familiar with today. Pigeons are now one of the most abundant, widespread species on the planet, managing to thrive in chaotic cities. They owe their success to an ideal combination of traits, including some that were accentuated by humans. Unlike birds that nest on the ground or in trees, pigeons were originally cliff-dwellers. City buildings mimic their natural habitat. And pigeons set a notoriously low bar when it comes to homemaking. Add some sticks to any window ledge or highway overpass and it's a great spot to raise babies. This unfussiness allows them to live in environments where more specialized species can’t. As generalists, pigeons take advantage of urban food waste. With an organ in their throats called a crop, they can gorge themselves when food is available and store some for later. They provide “crop milk” to their young instead of having to fetch them live food. Chicks grow quickly with this fat and protein-rich meal. If conditions are right, pigeons breed year-round and produce new offspring every six weeks. They actually have higher breeding rates in cities because of the abundance of food and shelter. These booming populations attract predators. New York City is home to a million pigeons, which support large populations of raptors. But pigeons’ aptitude for swift flight, further exploited by being bred for racing, means they’re made for high speed chases. Compared to barn owls, which are a similar size, pigeon wing bones are thicker and more curved, providing extra space for muscle mass. They can reach speeds of 125 kilometers per hour. And their large flocks ensure safety in numbers and more eyes on the lookout. While pigeons play a starring role in urban wildlife, we’re not always enthusiastic neighbors. In 1966, New York’s parks commissioner coined the term “rats with wings” and it stuck. Indeed, their poop, which we originally cherished as fertilizer, presents a unique problem. Just one pigeon can leave behind 11 kilograms of acidic excrement per year, which, in the United States, scales to about $1.1 billion in structural damage annually. Though incidents of infection are rare, this poop can host fungi that are harmful to people if inhaled. They may be numerous, noisy and a little too keen on your lunch, but the pigeons that swirl around us are evidence of an ancient, ongoing relationship. Their rise to world domination has been a collaborative effort. For better or for worse, we did this to ourselves.              
            

P6 2022-03-17 4 signs of emotional abuse - Viann Nguyen-Feng 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=6)
Emotional abuse can be incredibly damaging, increasing a person’s chances of developing depression and anxiety sometimes for decades after the fact. Broadly speaking, emotional abuse involves one person controlling another by undermining their sense of self-worth and personal agency. But emotionally abusive behaviors can be subtle and difficult to spot, both from within and outside the abusive relationship. That’s partly because emotional abuse often exploits or creates power imbalances between individuals, especially in relationships where safety, care, and trust are supposed to be guaranteed, like the relationship between a caregiver and a child, healthcare provider and patient, teacher and student, or intimate partners. It’s especially insidious because it often makes people doubt their perceptions of their own mistreatment. So let’s walk through some of the most common signs of emotional abuse, to make these behaviors and patterns easier to spot in real life. First, the content of someone’s words: criticism that’s out of proportion to a situation, excessively harsh or personal, or makes sweeping generalizations or baseless negative predictions for the future is a warning sign of emotional abuse. Statements like, “You always make such stupid decisions,” “You never do anything right,” and “Nobody else will ever love you,” aren’t constructive; they’re never warranted, and someone’s use of them is a red flag. Second, tone and non-verbal cues: yelling, ignoring and showing contempt through body language are all ways to degrade someone. Dismissive behaviors like eye rolling, glaring, or refusal to make eye contact, along with refusing to speak to someone or acknowledge their presence— sometimes called “the silent treatment”— can all feature in patterns of emotional abuse. These behaviors can painfully transform the meaning of spoken statements that might otherwise seem benign. Third, how someone reacts to being told they’ve said or done something hurtful can give important insight: do they apologize sincerely and act differently in the future, or do they dismiss and minimize the pain they’ve caused? It’s common for abusers to try to undermine their target’s perceptions of events— this is sometimes referred to as “gaslighting.” Following up demeaning, humiliating, or threatening remarks with comments that dismiss the impact of those remarks, like “I’m just trying to help you improve yourself— you should be grateful,” or “It’s really you that’s selfish and manipulative— you’re<i> </i>hurting me,” are examples of this behavior. Lastly, when someone directs any of these behaviors at you, take note of whether this is part of a pattern of behavior from them. A one-time incident of name-calling or a demeaning insult might not be emotional abuse, while repetition over time can have a much more serious impact. Both frequency, how often these behaviors occur in a given period of time, and duration, or how long they last, whether days or years, can contribute to the severity of the abuse. It’s also important to remember that abusers rarely engage in abusive behaviors 100% of the time— moments of kindness or calm don’t invalidate moments of abuse, but are actually part of the cycle of emotional manipulation. So what can you do if you think you or someone you care about is experiencing emotional abuse? Maintaining interpersonal ties with people other than the abuser is crucial, as abusers often try to isolate their targets from others close to them. If you think you might be experiencing emotional abuse, consider sharing your experiences with a trusted friend or relative to get outside support. Or you can seek local or national confidential advocacy centers that can provide helpful resources. And if you think someone you know is being emotionally abused, check in with them. Let them know you’re thinking of them and that you're ready to listen whenever they'd like to share. While emotional abusers may convince people that they deserve to be mistreated, nobody does: everyone deserves kindness and respect.              
            

P7 2022-03-22 How do you know you’re not dreaming - Daniel Gregory 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=7)
You’re a butterfly, fluttering around pursuing a butterfly’s whims. Then you wake up. But how do you know you’re not dreaming now? The answer might seem obvious, but it’s actually very difficult to explain how, definitively, you know you’re awake. So difficult, in fact, that it has puzzled philosophers since ancient times. In the butterfly scenario, the ancient Chinese philosopher Zhuangzi surfaced a mystifying possibility: if we can dream of being an entirely different creature, who's to say we're not actually a different creature dreaming of being human? Bizarre things happen in dreams: you fly, or conjure an all-you-can-eat dessert buffet out of thin air, or get chased by witches through the halls of your elementary school, which suddenly looks a lot like Paris. But the strange things that happen in dreams don’t seem strange at the time. So how do you know you’re not in a dream right now that will seem very strange after you wake up? Well, it is<i> </i>possible to notice the strangeness of a dream while you’re dreaming. Lucid dreamers know they’re dreaming. By definition, if you were having a lucid dream, you would know it. But all that proves is that you’re not having a lucid dream— it doesn’t prove you’re awake. There has to be a surefire test— something that never— or only— happens when you’re awake, something that never— or only— happens in a dream. Wake up. No, that isn’t it— you can wake up in a dream. Pinch yourself. If it hurts, aren’t you really awake? Try to read or write something. Run around the room. Does your pace seem normal or suspiciously slow? Suspiciously fast? Can’t tell? Try to remember the last time you ran. Actually, that brings us to an even better test from the 17th century French philosopher René Descartes. He pointed out that in our memories, dreams are disconnected— the events of a dream don’t fit in to the chain of events in our waking lives. This seems rock solid, doesn't it? You couldn’t possibly have swum with dolphins in a nameless pink sea between Christmas and New Year’s Eve because you didn’t leave Kansas and you have the receipts to prove it. Well, one of Descartes’ contemporaries, the English philosopher Thomas Hobbes, had something to say about that: what if Descartes was performing his test in a dream? What if we ask an expert? A neuroscientist can measure the activity in different parts of your brain and tell you whether you’re awake or sleeping. But that just brings us back to the idea that any test you might use to prove you’re awake could take place in a dream. So far, no one has found a convincing response to this. But let’s be real: there’s a whole lot more detail in our waking experience than in dreams. We go to sleep and wake up again day after day for many years, and each new day is full of countless people, places, things, experiences. Even our memories, which capture just a fraction of this experience, contain an almost incomprehensibly vast amount of detail: we can recall a line from a favorite book decades later, remember the musty smell of its pages and the taste of the lemonade we drank while reading it, remember a dream we had about it and tell someone all this. Isn't it ridiculous to suggest a dream could ever simulate this richness? Well, as the Persian philosopher al-Ghazali pointed out, in the same way we think we are now awake having woken from dreams, it is possible that we might wake from our current state into another state of even greater wakefulness. Which would mean we’re really in a kind of dream-state when we think we’re awake. What philosophers really want to know is what justifies our belief that we’re awake. We all want to believe things because we have reasons for them, not just because they seem right. Sometimes, the biggest challenge is to show why we should believe something that seems completely obvious to us all.              
            

P8 2022-03-24 The Chinese legend of the butterfly lovers - Lijun Zhang 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=8)
Adjusting her disguise, Zhu Yingtai prepared to bid her parents goodbye. She had always been a dutiful daughter— staying home and creating works of embroidery that brought her parents pride. And yet, although only boys were allowed at the Confucius Academy in Hangzhou, what Yingtai truly wanted was to go to school. She begged her parents to let her attend dressed as a boy and, seeing her determination and clever disguises, they finally agreed. However, they only gave her permission when she promised to keep her true identity a secret and eventually return to the traditional path they’d set for her. Elated, Yingtai began her journey to Hangzhou. On the way, she found herself at a crossroads, unsure which route to take when a young man approached. As their eyes met, they shared an instant connection. Yingtai learned that his name was Liang Shanbo, and that he’d be her classmate at the academy, so they walked the rest of the way together, rapt in conversation. Yingtai realized that, despite her meticulous disguise, she felt that she could finally be herself. The two decided to celebrate what they thought would be a long, close friendship, and became sworn brothers. At the academy, Yingtai buried herself in books and studied with Shanbo late into the nights. The two felt at home so long as they were at each other’s sides. They shared a room, but even though Shanbo questioned her about it, Yingtai always used the bathroom alone and buttoned her thick robes up to her chin— no matter the weather. Now and again, Yingtai heard students muttering about her secretive behavior. As months slipped into years, Yingtai continued to excel at her studies and felt like her past— and intended future—were lifetimes away. Yet the whispers grew louder. And after three years, she had no choice but to leave. Parting tearfully, Yingtai asked Shanbo to visit her. When Yingtai returned home, her parents announced that the Ma family from the neighboring village had sent a matchmaker to ask their permission for Yingtai to marry their son. They’d found it a fitting match and accepted. Trying to hide her disappointment, Yingtai honored their agreement. But as she prepared for another new life, she thought of Shanbo. Meanwhile, he too was distracted— his studies dull without Yingtai near. When Shanbo finally visited Yingtai’s house, he came upon a young woman. He was about to ask for her brother, but as their eyes met, he recognized the young scholar he’d always loved. Shanbo knew he couldn’t stand being separated from Yingtai again and asked her to marry him. But, heartbroken, Yingtai told him that she was already promised to another. Shanbo was devastated, but he understood that Yingtai had to abide by her parents’ wishes, and they parted again. Shanbo fell ill and grew weaker by the day. Worried, his family sent a matchmaker to the Zhu family. But, because of Yingtai’s current engagement, her father refused the proposal. Doing otherwise would bring their family public shame. Shanbo’s Illness took a turn for the worse and, sensing he wouldn’t live to see her married, Shanbo wrote Yingtai a final letter. If Yingtai loved him, he asked that she burn incense in front of his tomb when she was on her way to the Ma family. When Yingtai’s wedding day came, it also felt like a funeral. As the procession wound through town under stormy skies, Yingtai broke off and knelt in front of Shanbo’s tomb, lighting incense and offering sacrifices through her tears. Suddenly, a clap of thunder sounded above and a lightning bolt shot through the tomb, fracturing the stone. Without hesitation, Yingtai threw herself in. As her parents rushed to rescue their daughter, two butterflies fluttered out of the crack. This time, Yingtai had transformed for good. Finally free, she could float forever with Shanbo at her side.              
            

P9 2022-03-29 A riddle of ice and fire dragons - Henri Picciotto 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=9)
It’s your first day in your new job as Center Realm’s official cartographer, and you've already got a big problem. Center Realm is home to three elder dragons: two ice, one fire, and they’ve lived in harmony on the east coast for centuries. But scouts have sighted three fire dragons and five ice dragons flying across the Western Ocean. You’ll only have a few hours to assign them their designated regions before they’ll arrive. Elder dragons are extremely territorial. Each must have its own, officially acknowledged stomping ground. They’ll peacefully roost there unless their region borders another dragon of the same type, in which case the matching dragons will go on a rampage. However, fire and ice dragons can border each other, and matching regions can touch at corners. You’ll soon have 11 dragons and just 8 regions. Fortunately, you have enough political capital to create 3 new regions, each of which must be completely enclosed spaces. Add more or otherwise mess this up, and you’ll lose your job and your head. Where do you draw lines and place the new dragons? Pause here to figure it out for yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 It isn't difficult to create three new regions. What is more challenging is to make sure the result will keep each dragon away from its own kind. For instance, this can be neither ice nor fire, because it borders both. However, create a new region like this, and suddenly there are viable options. Why did that work? Look at the point where these four regions meet. If you go around it, it alternates between fire and ice. Before the new line was added, that wouldn’t have worked. Nor would 5 or 7 regions. 6 and 8, however, both do. The pattern is that points where lines meet must be surrounded by an even number of regions. As long as that’s true, you can color the map in two colors, by alternating them around those points. In our initial arrangement, there were six such meeting points. So what we want to do is connect those to each other. Each line adds a single new region that touches both meeting points. There are several ways to do this to accommodate all 8 new dragons. You’ve done such a great job that your boss puts you in a ship and sends you out across the Western Sea to investigate where these new dragons are coming from. There you’re met with a civilization in disarray. Their 17 elder dragons are ravaging the countryside, wiping out the peasants, devastating all the people and their thatch-roofed cottages. And here there aren't just ice and fire dragons, but lightning dragons too. Their people will only allow the creation of two new regions. Where do you create new regions and place all the dragons? Pause here to figure it out for yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 Unfortunately, our meeting-point trick won’t suffice now that there are three dragon types, so we need to find another method to identify problem areas. A great way to do so is to experiment: focus on one area and start coloring until we run out of possibilities. Take this section. These 3 regions all border each other, so they need to be different colors. But they also all touch this giant territory, which we now can’t color. To generalize the issue, when there are 4 regions that all border each other, it's impossible to color them with three colors. The map has two other such areas. So what you need to do is break them up. And once again, the key is drawing lines between points where multiple problematic regions touch. No matter how you do it, you’ll effectively subdivide the giant territory into smaller ones. Now coloring the map becomes a logic puzzle. So long as you approach it systematically by starting in one area and radiating out, you’ll reach an arrangement that you can fit all your dragons into, shifting the colors as needed. Just assign this region last, because it’ll have two options. You've saved not one, but two continents from certain ruin. Now to see if you can find a giant eagle and hitch a ride back home.              
            

P10 2022-03-31 Could a solar storm destroy modern civilization - Fabio Pacucci 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1c541127pM?p=10)
On September 1st, 1859, miners following the Colorado gold rush woke up to another sunny day. Or so they thought. To their surprise, they soon discovered it was actually 1 am; and the sky wasn’t lit by the Sun, but rather by brilliant drapes of light. The blazing glow could be seen as far as the Caribbean, leading people in many regions to believe that nearby cities had caught fire. But the true cause of what would come to be known as the Carrington Event was a solar storm— the largest in recorded history. Solar storms are one of many astrophysical phenomena caused by magnetic fields. These fields are generated by movements of electrically charged particles like protons and electrons. For example, Earth’s magnetic field is generated by charged molten metals circulating in the planet's outer core. Similarly, the Sun’s magnetic field is generated by large convective movements in the plasma that composes the star. As this plasma slowly swirls, it creates areas of intense magnetic activity called sunspots. The magnetic fields that form near these regions often become twisted and strained. And when they’re stretched too far, they snap into simpler configurations, releasing energy that launches plasma from the Sun’s surface. These explosions are known as coronal mass ejections. The plasma— mostly made of protons and electrons— accelerates rapidly, quickly reaching thousands of kilometers per second. A typical coronal mass ejection covers the distance between the Sun and the Earth in just a couple of days, flowing along the magnetic field that permeates the solar system. And those that cross the Earth’s path are drawn to its magnetic field lines, falling into the atmosphere around the planet’s magnetic poles. This tidal wave of high-energy particles excites atmospheric atoms such as oxygen and nitrogen, causing them to rapidly shed photons at various energy levels. The result is a magnificent light show we know as the auroras. And while this phenomenon is usually only visible near the Earth’s poles, strong solar storms can bring in enough high energy particles to light up large stretches of the sky. The magnetic fields in our solar system are nothing compared to those found in deep space. Some neutron stars generate fields 100 billion times stronger than those found in sunspots. And the magnetic fields around supermassive black holes expel jets of gas that extend for thousands of light years. However, on Earth, even weak solar storms can be surprisingly dangerous. While the storms that reach us are generally harmless to humans, the high-energy particles falling into the atmosphere create secondary magnetic fields, which in turn generate rogue currents that short-circuit electrical equipment. During the Carrington Event, the only widespread electrical technology was the telegraph. But since then, we've only become more dependent on electrical systems. In 1921, another powerful solar storm caused telephones and telegraph equipment around the globe to combust. In New York, the entire railway system was shut down and fires broke out in the central control building. Comparatively weak storms in 1989 and 2003 turned off regions of the Canadian power grid and damaged multiple satellites. If we were hit by a storm as strong as the Carrington Event today, it could devastate our interconnected, electrified planet. Fortunately, we're not defenseless. After centuries of observing sunspots, researchers have learned the Sun’s usual magnetic activity follows an 11-year cycle, giving us a window into when solar storms are most likely to occur. And as our ability to forecast space weather has improved, so have our mitigation measures. Power grids can be shut off in advance of a solar storm, while capacitors can be installed to absorb the sudden influx of energy. Many modern satellites and spacecraft are equipped with special shielding to absorb the impact of a solar storm. But even with these safeguards, it’s hard to say how our technology will fare during the next major event. It’s possible we’ll be left with only the aurora overhead to light the path forward.              
            

P1 2022-04-05 History vs. Tamerlane the Conqueror - Stephanie Honchell Smith 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=1)
He was born in the 1330s in the Chaghatayid Khanate formerly the Mongol Empire in Central Asia. On the unforgiving steppe, he rose from a lowly sheep thief to become one of history’s greatest conquerors, uniting nearly all of Central Asia, Afghanistan, and Iran under his rule. But was he a great state builder or a bloodthirsty tyrant? Order! Order! Who do we have on the stand today? Tamer...lane? That wasn’t his name, your Honor. The great Timur— meaning iron— was nicknamed “Timur the lame” by enemies who mocked permanent injuries to his leg and arm. Injuries he sustained raiding a rival tribe’s sheep herd— he was a thief and a scoundrel from the start! Maybe— we actually don’t know for sure— but even if that’s true, raiding rivals was just part of nomadic life at the time. Timur was not born into a ruling family, so he had to prove his worth through daring and horsemanship. He was hardly a commoner. Timur’s family was minor nobility. His uncle and brother-in-law were high-ranking officials. And when they trusted Timur on a diplomatic mission, he defected to a rival khan! Strategic maneuvering! He reconciled with his uncle and brother-in-law soon after. Only for long enough to consolidate his own power. Then he went to battle against his brother-in-law— supposedly his closest ally. He was assassinated, and Timur seized power! They may have been friends, but he was a corrupt man who alienated a lot of people. Timur was right to oust him. Afterward, he managed to reunite most of the khanate’s territories and put an end to decades of bloody infighting. Okay, so where are we? I can hardly keep up. 1370, your honor. And he’s khan now? Well, not quite. Timur was not a direct descendant of Genghis Khan, so he couldn’t claim the title. Instead, he appointed figurehead khans and referred to himself as amir, or commander, and later as güregen, or son-in-law, after he married a woman who was descended from Genghis Khan. He claimed to be a divinely ordained protector of the Mongol and Muslim worlds, yet he undermined both Mongol and Muslim power by relentlessly waging war against his neighbors, weakening them so much that Christian Europe romanticized him as an ally. His campaigns killed as many as 17 million people! Propaganda. Timur’s official biographies deliberately exaggerated the number of deaths to deter rebellions. Like the Mongols, Timur offered cities the chance to surrender and only ordered massacres if they revolted. He rebuilt irrigation canals to support agriculture, and regularly distributed food to the poor. Just in his hometown of Kesh, he paid for the meat of 20 sheep to be given to the poor every day. His campaigns were brutal, but by unifying Central Asia, Afghanistan, and Iran, he was also able to reinvigorate the Silk Road. Much of Eurasia benefited from the revival of long-distance trade, and Central Asian cities, such as Samarkand and Herat, became thriving commercial hubs under his rule. And meanwhile, other cities like Baghdad, Aleppo, and Delhi were plundered and burned and took decades to recover. This illiterate warlord destroyed centuries’ worth of cultural heritage, leaving nothing but pyramids of skulls in his wake. Timur may have been illiterate, but he was also an active patron of culture and the arts. During his conquests, he spared artisans and scholars, sending them to work on public projects like schools and mosques. Unlike many women in the world at the time, his wives, daughters, and daughters-in-law were highly educated and politically active. Timur also personally met with— and impressed— the famed Arab historian Ibn Khaldun in Damascus, and he so thoroughly mastered chess that he is said to have enjoyed a more complex variant that was named for him. So what happened after that? Timur died from an illness in 1405, when he was likely in his early 70s. The empire he founded lasted another hundred years, ushering in an architectural, artistic, literary and scientific renaissance across Central Asia. In Samarkand, Timur’s grandson, Ulugh Beg, built the largest astronomical observatory in the world at the time. Even after the fall of Timur's empire, his descendant Babur re-established himself in India, founding the Mughal Empire, which would become home to nearly a quarter of the world’s population and which built such splendors as the Red Fort and Taj Mahal. Timur's legacy is still celebrated in monuments across Central Asia, where he is remembered as “Buyuk Babamiz” or “our great forefather.” And yet today in Europe, India, and much of the Middle East, he's remembered as a butcher. That’s more reflection of the success of his own propaganda than of the man himself. Hold on now, I think I’ve almost got the king cornered! Emerging from relative obscurity, Timur’s conquests formed a legacy lasting nearly 500 years that remains on trial even today.              
            


P2 2022-04-07 Watch this if you're scared of snakes - Andrew Whitworth 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=2)
We get it, not everyone loves snakes. You may not want to encounter one in the wild. To each their own! That’s why we’re here, to take you on a world tour of some of nature’s most incredible snakes from the safety of your home— and with your very own intrepid guide. All the snakes we’ll be visiting belong to a group called the vipers. As of 2021, there are 368 species of viper worldwide. The name comes from the term viviparity, which means giving birth to live young. Unlike most snakes, which lay eggs, most vipers have eggs that hatch inside the mother, who then gives birth to up to dozens of tiny snakes. Not glad you’re safe at home yet? Vipers are also often highly venomous, with two hollow fangs that fold flat to the roofs of their mouths. This allows the fangs to be extra long, unfolding into imposing weapons when the viper prepares to strike. So how about we pay them a surprise visit? First stop: the southeastern United States, where we can hear the viper before we can see it. The eastern diamondback rattlesnake is the largest of 36 species of rattlesnake. Rattlesnakes can shake their rattles up to 90 times per second to warn off predators for hours if needed. The rattle consists of hollow, interlocked segments made of keratin, the same substance that makes our nails and hair. When the snake shakes its tail, these segments hit each other, creating a shockingly loud noise. Now onto the mountains of western Iran, where a spider crawls across a rock, making easy prey for a passing bird— or not. The spider-tailed horned viper is perfectly camouflaged, almost invisible, except for its unique bulbous tail-tip with long drooping scales that look like a leggy spider. Spider-tailed vipers are only about 50 centimeters long, so they can lure small birds within striking range without compromising their ability to squeeze into narrow rock crevices. In the rainforests of Latin America lives a viper that couldn’t be more different from the spider-tailed viper— if you can find it. It’s one of the most elusive snakes in the world: the bushmaster. The bushmaster is a pit viper. Between each eye and nostril, it has a heat-sensing pit with a membrane covered in highly sensitive receptors that respond to temperature changes as small as one one-thousandth of a degree Celsius. These pits gather infrared information that is integrated with visual information in the optic tectum. This allows the bushmaster to “see” the heat signature of approaching prey or predators, helping it decide whether or not to strike and strike more accurately. This comes in handy for guarding a nest— unlike most other vipers, the bushmaster lays eggs in hollowed out tree buttresses or burrows made by other animals. It must be large enough to defend its nest— in fact, the bushmaster is the largest viper in the world, reaching lengths of over 11 feet, with huge fangs and deadly venom. Meanwhile, in the forests of sub-Saharan Africa, there’s a shorter, chunkier viper that’s even more venomous than the bushmaster. The African Gaboon viper has the longest fangs of any snake— yes, all 3,879 snake species, not just vipers— and can deliver 1,000 milligrams of venom in a single bite— enough to kill ten adult humans. Although deadly, Gaboon vipers have a reputation for being slow-moving and placid creatures. When they do strike, they hold onto their rodent prey while the venom takes effect, then quickly swallow it down. At this point, you may be worrying about our guide— but never fear, rodents like our little desert kangaroo rat have their own skills to evade the serpent’s tooth. They stomp their feet at rattlesnakes, kick sand towards them, and evade their strikes with acrobatic leaps and powerful kicks— helping them live to guide another snake tour.              
            

P3 2022-04-12 Ethical dilemma - Who should you believe - Alex Worsnip 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=3)
You’re sitting on the couch watching TV, when you hear a knock on the door. The police have just arrived to arrest your spouse— for murder. This accusation comes as a total shock. In your experience, your partner has always been gentle and loving, and you can't imagine them committing a grisly murder. But the evidence is serious: their fingerprints were found on the murder weapon. Your spouse insists they're innocent. “I know it looks bad,” they say, “but you have to believe me! If you don’t, who will?” Should you believe your spouse, even though the evidence against them looks damning? Take a second to think what you would believe in this situation. This dilemma is part of what philosophers call the ethics of belief: a field of study that explores how we ought to form beliefs, and whether we have ethical duties to believe certain things. The question here isn't about what you should do, such as whether or not you should find your spouse guilty in a court of law. After all, you wouldn’t be on the jury in their trial! Rather, it’s about what you should believe to be true. So, what factors should you consider? Perhaps the most obvious is your evidence. After all, to believe something is to take it to be true. And evidence is, by definition, all information that helps us determine what's true. From this, some philosophers draw the conclusion that evidence is the only thing that ought to determine what you believe. This view is called evidentialism, and a strict evidentialist would say it doesn’t matter that the accused is your spouse. You should evaluate the evidence from a neutral, objective point of view. Taking the perspective of an unbiased third party, your judgment of your spouse's character is a relevant consideration. But finding their fingerprints at the crime scene is surely stronger evidence. So, from an evidentialist point of view, you should either believe your spouse is guilty, or at best remain undecided. Some philosophers present evidentialism only as a view of what’s most rational to believe. But others, like 19th century evidentialist W.K. Clifford, think that following the evidence is also morally required. One argument for this view is that having well-informed, accurate beliefs is often vitally important to determining the ethical way to act. Another argument is that there’s something unethical about being dishonest, and refusing to follow the evidence is a way of being dishonest with oneself. However, perhaps there are other ethical factors in play. Although the evidence against your spouse is strong, there’s still a chance that they’re actually innocent. Think for a moment about how it would feel to be innocent, and have no one believe you— not even your own partner! By not trusting your spouse, you run the risk of seriously hurting them in their crucial hour of need. Moreover, consider what this lack of trust would do to your marriage. It would be incredibly difficult to continue a loving relationship with someone that you believed— or even strongly suspected— was a murderer. You might try to pretend to believe that your spouse is innocent, but could you really go on living that lie? According to a theory of the ethics of belief called pragmatism, these kinds of practical considerations can sometimes make it right to believe something even without strong evidence. Some pragmatists would even say that you morally owe it to your spouse to believe them. But is it even possible to believe your spouse is innocent just because you think it’ll be good for your relationship? Or because you think you owe it to the accused? You might desperately want to believe they’re innocent, but can you control your beliefs in the same way you control your actions? It seems like you can’t just believe whatever you like when the truth is staring you in the face. But on the other hand, recall your spouse’s plea. When we say things like this, we seem to be assuming that it is possible to control our beliefs in some way. So what do you think? Can you control what beliefs you have? And if so, what will you believe about your spouse?              
            

P4 2022-04-14 The myth of Hades and Persephone - Iseult Gillespie 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=4)
Every year before the ancient Greeks sowed their seeds of grain, they celebrated Demeter, the goddess of agriculture. On Earth, each morsel of food was sweet sustenance, while in the land of the dead, it ensured a permanent stay. Demeter tended to Earth’s fields with her beloved daughter, Persephone, who inherited her mother’s passions and grew into a bright young woman. But all the while, a shadowy figure watched from below. One day, Persephone was frolicking in a meadow with a freshwater nymph, Cyane. As they admired a blooming narcissus flower, they noticed it tremble in the ground. Suddenly, the earth split, and a terrifying figure arose. It was Hades, god of the dead and the underworld. He wrenched Persephone from Cyane, dragged her into his inky chariot, and blasted back through the earth. Cyane wept so hard she dissolved, becoming one with the river. By the time Demeter arrived at the scene of the abduction, the crater in the meadow had closed— and Cyane and Persephone had vanished. Demeter sped to Mount Olympus for help. Many of the gods had witnessed the scene. And they knew about the deal that paved the way for it: Zeus, Persephone’s father, had granted Hades her hand in marriage without her consent— or Demeter’s. But when faced with Demeter’s pleas, the other gods stayed silent, So, she searched alone. In her grief and desperation, she neglected her usual tasks. Crops withered, and a great famine plagued the Earth. As mortals began to perish, the gods grew wary. Who would worship them and offer tributes if the humans disappeared? So, Zeus ordered Demeter to stop her crusade and returned to her duties. But she refused. Deep below, across the frigid river Styx, and through the halls of the underworld, Persephone was waging her own protest. Hades expected her to serve as his wife and queen. But Persephone rebuffed the god’s advances and refused food. As she longed for her mother’s company, her friends’ laughter, and the sun’s warmth, Persephone grew colder and lonelier. And she was starving. She hungered for satisfying grains, crisp vegetables and fresh fruit. Wandering the ghostly gardens, she contemplated the pomegranates that hung heavily on their branches... Meanwhile, Demeter continued her hunt. She appealed to the all-seeing sun god, Helios, whose rays had long warmed her crops. Indeed, when Helios drew his golden chariot across the sky that fateful day, he saw what happened— and he knew of the deal. Out of respect and sympathy for Demeter, Helios told her of Hades’ demands, Zeus’ betrayal and Persephone’s abduction. Furious and heartbroken, Demeter sped to Mount Olympus and confronted Zeus, demanding their daughter’s return. But Zeus declined: in her ravenous hunger, Persephone had eaten a few seeds from the pomegranate that grew in the underworld. Though a meager amount, it was enough to ensnare her in Hades forever. Demeter wouldn't accept this fate. She swore that if she wasn’t reunited with Persephone, the fields would never be fertile again, and the distinction between the Earth and the underworld would soon dissolve. So, they made a pact. For two thirds of every year, Persephone would return to the land of the living, But for the remainder, she would stay in the world of the dead. When Persephone ascended to Earth, she and her mother rejoiced. Together, they showered the fields with rain and nurtured them with sun. For mortals, Persephone’s arrival came to herald the start of spring. But her descent always came too soon. Each time she returned to Hades, Demeter mourned, and the earth grew cold, dark, and unyielding, ushering in the winter months. Knowing Demeter couldn’t be roused from her grief, the humans stored their crops, stoked their fires, and awaited Persephone’s safe return. And so it was that her transit marked the gradual turning of the seasons and the bittersweet compromise between life and death.              
            

P5 2022-04-19 Why are cockroaches so hard to kill - Ameya Gondhalekar 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=5)
In the Egyptian Book of the Dead, there’s a banishment spell that declares, “Be far from me, O vile cockroach.” More than 3,000 years later, we’re still trying to oust these insects. But from poison traps to hastily brandished slippers, cockroaches seem to weather just about everything we throw at them. So what makes cockroaches so hard to kill? There are nearly 5,000 cockroach species. 99% of them live in a range of habitats where they play important ecological roles by recycling dead or decaying organic matter and nourishing other animals. But a couple dozen species adapted to live in close association with humans. German and American cockroaches are among the most common. And they owe their resilience to a combination of physical and chemical adaptations. When it comes to old-fashioned removal methods, they're troublingly tenacious. An American cockroach’s sensory hairs or structures pick up subtle air currents and rapidly send signals to its central nervous system. The roach can then turn and sprint away within a few milliseconds. And it’s among the fastest invertebrates ever recorded, reaching speeds of up to 50 body lengths per second. This would be the human equivalent of running more than 300 kilometers per hour. And finding a hiding place is no problem. With its flattened, flexible body, an American cockroach can squeeze into spaces less than a quarter of its height. Even if we do land a hit, it can withstand compressive forces of up to 900 times its own weight by distributing the impact along its body. And the cockroach’s toughness doesn’t end there. Cockroaches can eat a variety of organic matter, including hair, dead skin, adhesives, and paper. This is made possible by an expansive set of digestive enzymes. Cockroaches are able to thrive even in nutrient-poor environments. Roaches often eat decaying foods that are low in nitrogen— an essential component of DNA and proteins. But they survive by storing nitrogen-containing wastes in their bodies and having a resident group of bacteria recycle the nitrogen into useful molecules for them. Meanwhile, German cockroaches will eat their own poop, vomit, and dead or dying colony members without hesitation. An American cockroach will frolic in sewers, consuming excrement and toting microbes like Staphylococcus aureus and E.coli. But they’ll rarely suffer any consequences. This is because they’re equipped with genes that provide immunity against numerous pathogens. These genes are often duplicated many times over. So when infected, the cockroach’s immune system efficiently unleashes many antimicrobial molecules. Cockroaches also have a slew of defenses against pesticides. When a non-resistant roach walks on a surface that’s been sprayed with a pyrethroid insecticide, for example, the results will likely be fatal. Once absorbed, the chemical binds to sodium channel proteins, which help propagate nerve impulses. The pyrethroid keeps the sodium channels open, so the nerves fire repeatedly. And soon, the cockroach dies. But if a resistant roach is exposed to pyrethroids, it’ll be just fine. Genetic mutations have given them sodium channels that the pyrethroids can’t bind to. The cockroach also produces more detoxification enzymes, which render the pesticide harmless, and the cockroach simply excretes it as a waste. Because German cockroaches reproduce especially quickly, populations may evolve resistance to a new pesticide within months. So far, they're already resistant to 43 different chemicals. But contrary to popular belief, cockroaches would probably not survive a nuclear apocalypse. Compared with other insects, cockroaches are only mildly tolerant to radiation. They would die near the sites of nuclear explosions and would still be severely compromised miles away. Moreover, disasters that threaten humanity also jeopardize the habitats and buffets we provide roaches. Perhaps the only way to beat them is through our mutual destruction. Or maybe cockroaches would find even more surprising ways to thrive long after we’re gone.              
            

P6 2022-04-21 The dark history of zombies - Christopher M. Moreman 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=6)
Animated corpses appear in stories all over the world throughout recorded history. But zombies have a distinct lineage— one that traces back to Equatorial and Central Africa. The first clue is in the word “zombie” itself. Its exact etymological origins are unknown, but there are several candidates. The Mitsogho people of Gabon, for example, use the word “ndzumbi” for corpse. The Kikongo word “nzambi” refers variously to the supreme being, an ancestor with superhuman abilities, or another deity. And, in certain languages spoken in Angola and the Congo, “zumbi” refers to an object inhabited by a spirit, or someone returned from the dead. There are also similarities in certain cultural beliefs. For example, in Kongo tradition, it’s thought that once someone dies, their spirit can be housed in a physical object which might bring protection and good luck. Similar beliefs about what might happen to someone’s soul after death are held in various parts of Africa. Between 1517 and 1804, France and Spain enslaved hundreds of thousands of African people, taking them to the Caribbean island that now contains Haiti and the Dominican Republic. There, the religious beliefs of enslaved African people mixed with the Catholic traditions of colonial authorities and a religion known as “vodou” developed. According to some vodou beliefs, a person’s soul can be captured and stored, becoming a body-less “zombi.” Alternatively, if a body isn’t properly attended to soon after death, a sorcerer called a “bokor” can capture a corpse and turn it into a soulless zombi that will perform their bidding. Historically, these zombis were said to be put to work as laborers who needed neither food nor rest and would enrich their captor’s fortune. In other words, zombification seemed to represent the horrors of enslavement that many Haitian people experienced. It was the worst possible fate: a form of enslavement that not even death could free you from. The zombi was deprived of an afterlife and trapped in eternal subjugation. Because of this, in Haitian culture, zombis are commonly seen as victims deserving of sympathy and care. The zombie underwent a transformation after the US occupation of Haiti began in 1915— this time, through the lens of Western pop culture. During the occupation, US citizens propagated many racist beliefs about Black Haitian people. Among false accounts of devil worship and human sacrifice, zombie stories captured the American imagination. And in 1932, zombies debuted on the big screen in a film called “White Zombie.” Set in Haiti, the film’s protagonist must rescue his fiancée from an evil vodou master who runs a sugar mill using zombi labor. Notably, the film's main object of sympathy isn't the enslaved workforce, but the victimized white woman. Over the following decades, zombies appeared in many American films, usually with loose references to Haitian culture, though some veered off to involve aliens and Nazis. Then came the wildly influential 1968 film “Night of the Living Dead,” in which a group of strangers tries to survive an onslaught of slow-moving, flesh-eating monsters. The film’s director remarked that he never envisioned his living dead as zombies. Instead, it was the audience who recognized them as such. But from then on, zombies became linked to an insatiable craving for flesh— with a particular taste for brains added in 1985′s “The Return of the Living Dead.” In these and many subsequent films, no sorcerer controls the zombies; they’re the monsters. And in many iterations, later fueled by 2002′s “28 Days Later,” zombification became a contagious phenomenon. For decades now, artists around the world have used zombies to shine a light on the social ills and anxieties of their moment— from consumer culture to the global lack of disaster preparedness. But, in effect, American pop culture also initially erased the zombies origins— cannibalizing its original significance and transforming the victim into the monster.              
            

P7 2022-04-26 Can you solve the feeding frenzy riddle - Henri Picciotto 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=7)
As Numberland’s best detective, you thought you’d seen it all. But the desiccated corpses of prominent natural numbers— whole numbers greater than 0— have been showing up all over the city for the past week. All of Digitopolis is on lockdown from sundown to sunrise, and it’s still not enough to stop what can only be described as a vampiric feeding frenzy. The police are helpless, and have turned to you. You put the missing persons case you’ve been investigating on hold and study the evidence. Here’s what you know: most victims have been completely drained of their life’s essence. Some have a thin line of slime separating digits— some of which were drained and others spared. Which leads you to mystery one: what’s the significance of the slime-lines, and why are certain digits untouched? Pause here to figure it out yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 Let’s start by looking for a pattern in the victims. Why have some been fully drained, and some slimed? Well, the slime-lined are in their prime— which is to say they’re prime numbers, divisible only by 1 and themselves. Not a single one of the unslimed numbers, on the other hand, is. Furthermore, the drained parts of the slimed primes are not, themselves, prime. When 71 got slimed, 7 was prime, but 1 was not. If 461 had been split into 4 and 61, the right side would have been prime, but instead it was split further into non-prime digits. And when 2099 got slimed, the attacker went with 20 and 99, and was able to drain both. So you have a big problem. There are infinite potential victims: all non-prime numbers, and all prime numbers that can be slime-lined to reveal at least one non-prime number. In fact, you can only think of a few numbers that aren't vulnerable. First of all, the one digit primes: 2, 3, 5, and 7. Then primes like 23, which could only be split into 2 and 3, both prime. These numbers are familiar, but why? Aha! Your missing person’s case. Someone is kidnapping the numbers that can’t be drained: we’ll call them the immune. If you can identify the four immune who remain, perhaps you can get to them first and figure out what’s going on. Who are the immune? Pause here to figure it out yourself. Answer in 2 Answer in 1 There are 4 one-digit immune: 2, 3, 5, and 7. All have already been kidnapped. But every digit in all of the immune must be one of those four numbers; otherwise there would be a non-prime split possible. That means there are only these 16 candidates among the two-digit numbers. The ones that are prime must be immune. We can eliminate anything that ends in 2 or 5, as they’ll always be divisible by 2 and 5. This diagonal is also out, as they’re divisible by 11. If the digits of a number add up to a multiple of 3, it’s divisible by 3. So that eliminates 57 and 27, leaving these numbers. Which, upon double-checking, are, in fact, immune. We now have a strong starting point for searching three-digit numbers: any 2 consecutive digits must be on the list of the two-digit immune. Those all end in 3 and 7, so the only possibilities are these 8 options: the two-digit immune with additional 3s or 7s on their ends. 3 can’t follow 3, nor 7 follow 7. And once again, adding the digits reveals that 237 and 537 are divisible by 3. 737 is 67 times 11, so that leaves just 373, which is, in fact, prime, and therefore immune. Could a four-digit number be immune? No, any consecutive three digits would have to be immune, and there’s no immune three digit number that starts with a 7. You rush out, but reach each home too late, until the only immune left is 373. You’re in the nick of time to scare off her would-be kidnapper; not the vampire itself but a minion. 373 explains that she and the other immune are the subjects of an ancient prophecy that designated them as vampire slayers. They’d sometimes gather and try to figure out what a vampire is, but no one had the slightest idea. They found the idea of slaying things quite distasteful. You both trail her would-be kidnapper back to a foreboding castle. There you release the other kidnapped numbers and confront the vampire himself. He’s powerless before the slayers, but ever the pacifists, they round him up, return the lifeforce to his victims, and send him packing. Numberland is safe... for now.              
            

P8 2022-04-28 The myth of the original star-crossed lovers - Shannon Zhao 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Fa411a7Gu?p=8)
In the celestial court of the Jade Emperor lived seven princesses. Each had their chosen place in court, but the youngest princess had a special skill. She could pluck clouds from the sky and spin them into the softest robes. Her work was so precise, not even the most expert eye could find a seam. But her craft was the same day after day, and she longed for new inspiration. Finally, the Queen Mother granted the weaver permission to visit Earth. The other princesses would accompany her to protect their sister from earthly dangers. Dressed in special robes that allowed them to fly between Heaven and Earth, the sisters soared down from the sky. The weaver was in awe of the rolling hills and rivers, and the sisters decided to swim in one of the glittering streams. As the weaver floated, she dreamt about staying forever. Meanwhile, a lone cowherd approached the riverbank. He came here often to sweep his parent’s grave and speak with his only companion— a stoic bull who listened patiently to the cowherd’s sorrows. But upon seeing the weaver’s beauty, the cowherd forgot his routine. While he longed to introduce himself, his lonely lifestyle had made him timid. Thankfully, the bull saw his friend's plight and offered some advice. He told the cowherd of the swimmer’s celestial origins and of her dream to stay on Earth; but also that she could only remain if she lost her ticket back to Heaven. As the cowherd approached, the princesses flew away in fear— leaving their dreaming sister behind. While keeping her magic robes hidden, the cowherd offered his own garment as a substitute. And after gaining her trust, the pair began exploring the countryside. She was struck by his caring nature, and he learned to see the world’s wonder through her eyes. Before long, the two had fallen deeply in love. The weaver and the cowherd built a prosperous life. Their farm flourished, and the weaver taught her skills to local villagers. As time marched on, the pair was blessed with two healthy children, but their bull was growing old. Before he died, the bull implored the family to keep his hide and use its magic at their time of need. While the husband grieved for his friend, the weaver’s mind turned to her other family. Dusting off her magical robe, she decided to pay a visit to the heavens. But when the weaver swept into her old home, no one seemed surprised to see her. With a start, she realized that barely any time had passed— for a year on Earth was merely a day in Heaven. When her family learned of her new life, they were enraged. How dare she waste her love on a human? The weaver tried to escape back to Earth, but the Queen Mother plucked a golden hairpin from her head and tore through the sky. A great gulf opened, forming a river of stars between Heaven and Earth. Below, the cowherd trembled, but he also remembered the bull’s final words. Hastily placing each child in a basket, he draped the bull’s pelt over his back and hurtled upwards. Above the clouds, each lover attempted to wade through the surging stars. But no matter how hard they struggled, the gulf between them only grew wider. Day after day, the Queen Mother watched without pity. Years passed, and the weaver and the cowherd had no one, except the passing magpies to cheer them on. Finally, their love moved the Queen Mother’s heart. While she couldn’t forgive her granddaughter entirely, the Queen Mother would allow the weaver to meet her earthly family once a year. And so, in late summer, the magpies form a bridge across the Milky Way, reuniting the weaver and the cowherd. At this time of year, millions of people in East and Southeast Asian countries tell similar tales of these star-crossed lovers, celebrating their annual reunion.              
            
P1 2022-05-03 How the Suez Canal changed the world - Lucia Carminati 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=1)
In March 2021, fierce winds blew a container ship off course. In most places, this would have caused a minor incident. But in the Suez Canal, it was a global crisis. This vessel wasn’t just blocking other ships— It was obstructing the flow of international trade through one of the world’s most important waterways. The site of the Suez Canal has been of interest to rulers of this region as far back as the second millennium BCE. To move goods between Asia and the Mediterranean basin, traders had to traverse the narrow isthmus separating the Red Sea and the Nile, journeying in camel-bound caravans through the unforgiving desert. A maritime passage between the Indian Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea would bypass this trip altogether. And throughout the 16th century, multiple powers attempted to construct such a canal. But their plans were obstructed by cost, political strife, and the ever-shifting sands. In 1798, interest in building a canal was rekindled, this time attracting attention from across Europe. Over the following decades, individuals from Austria, Italy, Britain, and France pitched their plans to Egypt’s rulers. At the time, Egypt was a territory of the Ottoman Empire, which was resistant to these proposals. But Egypt's political and economic autonomy was gradually increasing, and its government was eager to pursue the project. When Sa’id Pasha came into power in 1854, he approved a plan from the enterprising and manipulative French diplomat Ferdinand de Lesseps. Signed in 1854 and 1856, a pair of concessions gave de Lesseps authority to establish the Suez Canal Company and finance it by selling shares to “capitalists of all nations.” The contracts between Sa’id Pasha and the Canal Company also promised a workforce of hundreds of thousands of Egyptian workers. Beginning in 1862, about 20,000 laborers were forcibly recruited every month, digging the canal in harsh desert conditions without easy access to food or water. Diseases like cholera ran rampant and workers toiled under the threat of whips. The estimates of those who died during construction range into the thousands. In 1864, the new Egyptian ruler, Isma’il Pasha, put an end to the coerced Egyptian labor, but he still pressed forward with construction. Foreign workers from all over Europe and the Middle East labored alongside dredgers and bucket excavators to remove 74 million cubic meters of dirt. This massive population of workers required infrastructure to deliver drinking water and other supplies, giving rise to a flourishing economy of restaurants, brothels, and smuggled goods. Amidst the bustle were born three new cities with multi-ethnic populations: Port Said on the northern Mediterranean shore, Ismailia on the canal's middle tract, and Port Tewfiq, at the southern edge of the canal. The construction site bypassed the Nile and ran directly from Port Said to Suez. And after years of work, the streams of the two seas finally began merging in the mid-1860s. The finished canal was 164 kilometers long, with a width of 56 meters at the surface, and it was officially inaugurated on November 17th, 1869. While it struggled financially during its first few years, the canal ended up dramatically accelerating global trade. It also facilitated the migration of numerous marine species, dramatically changing local ecosystems and cuisine. Over the decades, traffic through the canal grew. But in 1875, financial issues forced Egypt to sell much of its stock in the Canal Company, allowing Britain to take over. It was only in 1956 that control of the canal fully reverted to Egypt when it was nationalized by President Gamal Abdel Nasser. This move sparked a military standoff between Egypt and Britain, France, and Israel. But once resolved, it transformed the canal into a major source of Egypt's national revenue and helped redeem the canal's imperialist legacy. Today, nearly 30% of all global ship traffic passes through the Suez Canal, totaling over 20,000 ships in 2021. However, the incident of the Ever Given is a stark reminder of just how fragile our manmade systems can be.              
            

P2 2022-05-05 The Irish myth of Diarmuid’s betrayal - Iseult Gillespie 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=2)
Gráinne, daughter of King Cormac mac Airt, princess of Tara, and bride-to-be, was furious. Fionn Mac Cumhaill, leader of the Fianna, Ireland’s most celebrated band of warriors, had just arrived at her castle. Gráinne had believed she was betrothed to a young soldier, bold and brilliant enough to be her equal. Yet upon their arrival, it became clear she was expected to marry Fionn himself; who, while once a legend, was far past his prime. Gráinne would not suffer this insult. Before the wedding, the King held a great banquet. As the warriors told tales of Fionn’s strength and magical healing hands, Gráinne waited to enact her revenge. But while scanning the room, her eyes locked on to one of the guests. Diarmuid, one of Fionn’s bravest soldiers and foster child of the God of Love himself, was renowned for his stunning beauty. Perhaps this was the bold warrior the princess had imagined? Only one way to find out. Gráinne swept into action, slipping a sleeping draught into the partygoers’ goblets. Soon the hall fell silent— save for two unenchanted guests. The pair immediately felt a powerful connection. But Diarmuid hesitated. He’d never put his interests before the Fianna’s. Seeing Diarmuid waver between duty and desire, Gráinne took the decision out of his hands. With a light kiss, she placed a geas on his brow— an ancient spell that bound them together, for better or worse. As the pair escaped, Diarmuid’s heart was racing. Had he really betrayed Fionn for a woman he’d just met? To answer his son’s questions, Angus Óg appeared beside them. The God of Love blessed their union and eased his son’s concern. But he also warned that endless difficulties lay ahead. At the palace, Fionn awoke full of wrath. He rallied an epic war band that quickly caught up to the lovers. To buy time, Diarmuid and Gráinne conjured a massive enclosure with seven doors. While Gráinne escaped with Angus Óg, Diarmuid went door to door seeking Fionn. Some of the Fianna sought peaceful surrender, others itched for combat. Diarmuid gave neither. But when he finally heard his leader’s voice calling for blood, he knew there was no turning back. Launching himself over the barricade, Diarmuid leapt to Gráinne’s side. The chase was on. The pair ventured west, where they soon encountered the giant Modan. Eager to help the lovers, he guarded them at night and carried them by day. And once the pair had crossed countless rivers and hills, their fear began to ease. They left the forest’s cover, laughing, flirting, and growing bolder each day. But Fionn saw their contentment was an opportunity. He enlisted three sea chiefs to capture the wandering lovers. Diarmuid scared them off with mystifying sword tricks— only for Fionn to send poisonous hounds. Diarmuid and Gráinne fled yet again into an even more tangled forest— a sight which filled the Fianna with exhaustion. They implored Fionn to give up the hunt, and at this, their leader grew quiet. He’d already lost a dear friend— now it seemed his wrath had cost him the respect of his men as well. Swallowing his rage, he called off the chase. For years, Gráinne and Diarmuid lived in peace. In time, Angus Óg even brokered an agreement between the warriors, and their conflict faded into memory. But Gráinne never forgot the love god’s warning. One day, Fionn invited Diarmuid on a boar hunt high in the mountains. While the two were riding, a venomous boar charged them and mortally wounded Diarmuid. As he bled, the old warrior begged his friend for water, as all the Fianna knew drinking from the hands of Fionn Mac Cumhaill could save their lives. But as Fionn turned to aid Diarmuid, his old resentments came rushing back. For just a moment, his fingers parted, letting the water trickle to the ground. And by the time Fionn realized his mistake, it was too late. And the embers of rage that long burned inside him were finally quenched by tears.              
            

P3 2022-05-10 The biggest mistakes in mapmaking history - Kayla Wolf 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=3)
On a tiny copper globe created in the early 1500s, the coast of Southeast Asia is marked with a message that has since become iconic: Here be dragons. Though the words themselves were actually quite rare, the sentiment was common among medieval European mapmakers, who often scrawled dragons and sea monsters over terra incognita— blank spots on the map. For thousands of years, people all over the world had made both functional maps— showing trade routes, settlements, topography, water sources, the shapes of coastlines, or written directions— and what are known as cosmographies, illustrating the Earth and its position in the cosmos, often including constellations, gods, and mythic locations. From the Middle Ages through the mid-17th century, cartographers in Eurasia and North Africa produced a slew of new world maps with features from both these traditions. Often commissioned by rulers and other powerful people, these maps were meant to depict the world’s geography, but not necessarily to be useful for navigation. And given their maker’s incomplete knowledge of the world, they were really hypotheses— some of which have been glaringly disproven. In medieval Europe, the new vogue began with what were known as mappae mundi. Many of these veered closer to cosmographies, featuring the Garden of Eden or mythical dragons. They all followed the same format, showing the world's land as one mass divided roughly into the shape of a T and surrounded by a ring of ocean. Islamic mapmakers also created world maps in this format, emphasizing geographic details over fantastical elements. One of the earliest and most accurate such maps was created by Ibn Hawqal, whose own travels informed his mapmaking. In 1154, the King of Sicily commissioned Islamic mapmaker Al-Idrisi to create the “Tabula Rogeriana,” also known as “A Guide to Pleasant Journeys into Faraway Lands.” This book of maps included a world map based on Idrisi’s own travel and interviews with other traders and travelers. He correctly depicted the world as a flattened sphere, but thought Europe, Asia, and North Africa wrapped all the way around it. The “Da Ming Hunyi Tu” was created in China in 1389 on a piece of silk big enough to fill an entire room. Though the mapmakers had never been to Africa, they attempted to depict the continent based on the accounts of the traders who’d been there. Surprisingly, this gave them enough information to create a correctly shaped portrayal of sub-Saharan Africa. Beginning in the 15th century, European cartographers began to expand the scope of their world maps as their explorers traveled the world— but not without missteps. In 1507, the German cartographer Martin Waldseemuller mapped the Americas— as a thin sliver of land where the east coast would be. Spanish cartographers took a stab at the western side of the Americas based on accounts from an expedition to the Baja Peninsula. Unfortunately, the explorers’ impressions of the land led them astray: for over 100 years after, Spanish maps depicted the “Island of California” detached from the rest of the continent. The Flemish cartographer Gerardus Mercator, best known for his world map, also created a map of the never-before-seen North Pole that was published in 1595. Mercator speculated that the North Pole prominently featured the “Rupes Nigra,” a giant magnetic rock surrounded by a whirlpool that explained why all compasses point north. Even as Europeans built towards a complete picture of the Earth, they didn’t entirely let go of the idea of blank spots filled with mythic beasts. As late as 1657, English scholar Peter Heylin lumped Australia together with Utopia and Fairyland. But with the exception of the North Pole, these so-called terra incognita weren’t really unknown— at least not to the people who lived there. There weren’t really dragons anywhere on Earth, but there were people and cultures— many of them eradicated by those who put their lands on world maps.              
            

P4 2022-05-12 Does trickle-down economics actually work - Jonathan Smith 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=4)
When President Ronald Reagan began his first term in 1981, the US economy was struggling. Unemployment rates were high and getting higher, and in 1979, inflation had peaked at an all-time high for peacetime. In an effort to combat these issues, Reagan's administration introduced a number of economic policies, including tax cuts for large corporations and high-income earners. The idea was that tax savings for the rich would cause extra money to trickle down to everyone else, and for that reason, these policies are often referred to as trickle-down economics. From the 80s to the late 90s, the US saw one of its longest and strongest periods of economic growth in history. Median income rose, as did rates of job creation. Since then, many politicians have invoked trickle-down theory as a justification for tax cuts— but did these policies actually work, either in the sense of stimulating economic growth, or in terms of improving circumstances for Americans? Would they work in other circumstances? To answer these questions, the main things to consider are whether the impact of the tax cut on the government’s tax revenue is harmful, whether the money saved in taxes actually stimulates the economy, and whether stimulating the economy actually improves people’s lives. The idea behind tax cuts is that if taxes are too high, people will be less willing to work, which would ultimately decrease tax revenue. So at a lower tax rate, the government might actually gain more tax money that it can theoretically put towards improving life for its citizens, because people will work more when they get to keep more of their earnings. Of course, there’s a limit to how much the government can cut taxes: at a zero tax rate there is no tax revenue regardless of how much people are working. So while cuts from a very high tax rate might be fine, cuts from a lower tax rate might be counterproductive, hampering the government's ability to accomplish crucial things. Tax rates were extremely high when Reagan took office. His administration cut the highest income tax bracket from 70% to 28% and corporation tax from 48% to 34%. By comparison, as of early 2021, those rates were 37% and 21% respectively. When tax rates are lower, tax cuts for the wealthy can be harmful. For example, in 2012 to 2013, lawmakers cut the top tax-rate in the state of Kansas by almost 30% and reduced some business tax rates to zero. As a result, the government’s balance sheet immediately fell into negative territory and did not recover, implying that wealthy individuals and companies did not invest back into the economy. In short, the money did not trickle down. This appears to be a trend: in a study over multiple periods of history and across 18 countries, The London School of Economics found that cutting taxes increased the wealth of the top 1% of people, but had little effect on the economy as a whole. In order for tax cuts for the rich to truly stimulate the economy, they would have to spend the saved money putting it back into, for example, local businesses— but this isn’t what happens in practice. No economic policy operates in isolation: each time and place is unique with multiple policies in place simultaneously, so there is only ever one test case for each set of scenarios. This makes it difficult to deliver definitive rulings on whether an economic policy worked, whether something else might have worked better, or whether it would work in a different situation. And yet, rhetoric around trickle-down economics, both during the Reagan era and since, often promises something definitive: that spending by society’s richest members on things other than taxes directly improves the financial circumstances of the less wealthy. And there’s not much evidence to support that.              
            

P5 2022-05-17 The rebel radio that brought down a war criminal - Diana Sierra Becer 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=5)
In 1984, a group of radio broadcasters and operators walked into the abandoned village of El Mozote in El Salvador. Fireflies illuminated the remnants of a massacre that had taken place three years earlier. Led by Colonel Domingo Monterrosa, government soldiers had tortured, raped, and murdered 978 people, including 553 children. The youngest victim, Concepción Sánchez, was just three days old. Both the US and Salvadoran governments denied the massacre had taken place, and the slaughter left few people alive to tell their story. But with the help of Radio Venceremos, one of those survivors, Rufina Amaya, shared her testimony— exposing both Monterrosa and the governments funding his crimes. This massacre was one in a long line of atrocities committed against El Salvador’s farmers. Since the 1800s, a handful of oligarchs had controlled nearly all the country’s land, forcing laborers to work for almost nothing. In 1932, Indigenous farm workers led an insurrection, but the dictatorial government responded by committing genocide against these communities. From then on, one military dictatorship after another ruled the country in concert with wealthy landowners. Their power only grew in the 1960s, when the United States began supplying the regime with military aid. The US wanted to stop the spread of reformist and revolutionary movements, which they saw as threats to capitalism. So they spent huge sums of money training Salvadoran soldiers and “death squads”— fascist military units versed in brutal counter-insurgency methods. Throughout the 1970s, these forces slaughtered farmers who organized to demand basic rights, such as living wages, food, and clean water. Finally, in 1980, farmers and urban workers formed the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front. This coalition of guerrilla groups fought to overthrow the dictatorship and build a socialist society that met the needs of laborers. These revolutionaries were attacked from every direction. Colonel Monterrosa led a special battalion intent on destroying the FMLN, using tactics he’d learned at an American military school. State forces terrorized farmers to stop them from joining or aiding the guerrillas. But one group of rebels would not be silenced: the operators of Radio Venceremos. This clandestine guerrilla radio began in 1981, and its broadcasters Santiago and Mariposa became the voice of the revolution. They transmitted news from the front lines and reported military abuses that no other source covered. The station’s politics and popularity made it a high-profile target. And because they operated in a relatively small area, its broadcasters had to move constantly to evade capture. To communicate undetected, the group modified two radios into telephones, linked together through kilometers of barbed wire covering the countryside. This secret telephone line helped the rebels stay one step ahead of their pursuers. In addition to reporting news, the radio broadcast educational programs in areas under guerrilla control. Here, farmers organized democratic councils to govern themselves, alongside cooperatives, schools, and medical clinics. Organizers also encouraged civilian women to participate in these councils to ensure the revolution overthrew both capitalism and patriarchy. Women made up roughly a third of the guerrillas, working in a huge variety of roles. Colonel Monterrosa was obsessed with destroying Radio Venceremos. In October 1984, government soldiers finally captured their radio transmitter. Monterrosa himself went to retrieve the equipment and held a theatrical press conference celebrating his “decisive blow to the subversives.” But in reality, the radio team had outsmarted him once again. The transmitter was boobytrapped. Once Monterrosa’s helicopter left the press conference, radio members detonated the device over El Mozote, killing the colonel near the village he had massacred. Monterrosa’s death was one victory in a much larger conflict. The civil war raged on for 8 more years before concluding in 1992, when peace accords dissolved the oppressive National Guard and allowed the FMLN to become an electoral party. But these accords didn’t address problems of deep, structural inequality. In 1993, the UN Truth Commission reported that over 75,000 people died during the war. Yet the Salvadoran legislature prevented the prosecution of war crimes and continues to obstruct justice to this day. As of 2021, no participating American officials have been put on trial, and only one individual from the Salvadoran government has been sentenced for war crimes. Historical erasure exists in the US as well, where these and other stories of US intervention in Central America are rarely taught in public schools. But the victims refuse to be forgotten. Rufina Amaya continued to share her testimony until her death in 2007. And survivors of other massacres still organize to denounce state violence. They map old massacre sites, exhume and bury loved ones, and build sanctuaries and museums, all in the hope of pollinating a more just future.              
            

P6 2022-05-19 Why are eating disorders so hard to treat - Anees Bahji 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=6)
Globally, about 10% of people will experience an eating disorder during their lifetime. And yet, eating disorders are profoundly misunderstood. Misconceptions about everything from symptoms to treatment, make it difficult to navigate an eating disorder or support someone you love as they do so. So let’s walk through what is— and isn’t— true about eating disorders. First, what is an eating disorder? Eating disorders are a range of psychiatric conditions characterized by these main patterns of behavior: restricting food intake, bingeing, or rapidly consuming large amounts of food, and purging or eliminating calories through vomiting, laxatives, excessive exercise, and other harmful means. An eating disorder can involve any one or any combination of these behaviors. For example, people living with anorexia usually restrict the amount of food they eat, while bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder characterized by recurrent binges and purges. Importantly, these behaviors determine whether someone has an eating disorder. You can’t tell whether someone has an eating disorder from their weight alone. People who weigh what medical professionals might consider a healthy range can have eating disorders, including severe ones that damage their long-term health in invisible ways, including osteoporosis, anemia, heart damage, and kidney damage. Just as we can’t tell whether someone has an eating disorder based on their weight alone, we can’t get rid of these disorders simply by eating differently. That’s because eating disorders are, at their core, psychiatric illnesses. From what we understand, they involve a disruption to someone’s self-perception. Most people who experience them are severely critical of themselves and report many self-perceived flaws. They may use eating to try to regain some control over an internal sense of chaos. We still don’t know exactly what causes eating disorders. There likely isn’t a single cause, but a combination of genetic and environmental risk factors that contribute. Sometimes, other mental illnesses— like depression or anxiety— can cause symptoms of eating disorders. In addition, certain psychological factors, such as perfectionism and body image dissatisfaction, are risk factors for eating disorders. Several social factors contribute, too, including internalized weight stigma, exposure to bullying, racial and ethnic assimilation, and limited social networks. Although there is a common misconception that only women experience eating disorders, people of all genders can be affected. As these disorders intimately affect the development of one’s identity and self-esteem, people are particularly vulnerable to developing them during adolescence. Although these are among the most challenging psychiatric disorders to treat, effective therapies and interventions exist, and many people who receive treatment make a full recovery. Treatment has a higher chance of success the earlier it starts after someone develops disordered eating behaviors. But unfortunately, less than half of people with an eating disorder will seek and receive treatment. Because of the complex effects of eating disorders on both the body and the mind, treatment usually includes a combination of nutritional counseling and monitoring, psychotherapy, and in some cases, medications. Evidence-based psychotherapies exist as treatments for most eating disorders, including cognitive-behavioral therapy and family-based therapy. These are talk-therapies that help people gain the skills to deal with underlying psychological problems that drive eating disorder symptoms. Because not all patients will respond to these treatments, researchers are also investigating treatments outside of psychotherapy, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation. Proper treatment can reduce the chances of dying from a severe eating disorder. Eating disorders can provoke a powerful sense of powerlessness, but education for individuals, families, and communities helps erode the stigma and improve access to treatment.              
            

P7 2022-05-24 How does heart transplant surgery work - Roni Shanoada 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=7)
Your heart beats more than 100,000 times a day. In just a minute, it pumps over five liters of blood throughout your body. But unlike skin and bones, the heart has a limited ability to repair itself. So if this organ is severely damaged, there’s often only one medical solution: replacing it. Today, nearly 3,500 heart transplants are performed each year in a complex and intricate procedure with no room for error. The process begins by testing potential recipients to ensure they’re healthy enough for this demanding operation. Doctors are especially concerned with identifying immunocompromising illnesses or any other conditions that could compromise a patient's chance of survival. The next step is to match an eligible recipient with a heart donor. Donors are often comatose patients with no chance of being resuscitated or victims of a fatal event whose hearts are still healthy. In both cases, these patients need to be registered as an organ donor or have their families give consent. And even when a heart is available, surgeons can’t just pair any donor with any recipient. The recipient’s immune system will view a transplanted heart as a foreign organism that must be attacked. So doctors need to match recipients with donors that share their blood type and have similar antigens. If a match can be made, the surgery can begin. Once the donor's heart is confirmed to be healthy, the organ is immersed in an ice slush and injected with a solution to induce cardiac arrest. These treatments stop the heart from pumping to ensure it can be removed cleanly. Surgeons then place the organ in a mix of cold saline and preservation solution. This is when the clock starts. Disconnected from its blood supply, the heart’s cells start taking on damage from lack of oxygen. The organ will only remain viable outside the body for a few hours, so it needs to reach its recipient as fast as possible. Once the heart arrives, the recipient is put under general anesthesia. The surgeon makes an incision down the length of the chest, cutting through the breastbone to separate the rib cage and expose the heart. To keep blood flowing while they remove the damaged organ, surgeons use a cardiopulmonary bypass machine. This takes over the heart's job, generating enough force to push blood through the patient's circulatory system. After the old heart is removed, the surgeon begins sewing the donor heart into place. This is an incredibly precise process, where each blood vessel and artery must be carefully attached to avoid leaks. The procedure can last several hours, potentially longer if there’s scar tissue from previous surgeries. Once it’s finished, the bypass machine is turned off and blood is allowed to flow into the aorta. Doctors carefully monitor the new heart to ensure it’s beating on its own before sewing the recipient back up. Even after the procedure is complete, there's still work to be done. Surgeons are unable to directly connect the heart to the recipient’s nervous system, and it can take years for the body to fully innervate the new organ. During this period, the transplanted organ has a higher resting heart rate and risk of stroke, making exercise difficult and dangerous. And since it’s incredibly rare to find a perfect match between donor and recipient, the immune system will also have some response to the new heart. Immunosuppressive drugs can help manage the risk of rejection, but they also leave patients open to contracting dangerous infections. It requires constant monitoring and testing to balance these two concerns. Despite these challenges, about 70% of heart transplant recipients survive for at least five years after the operation, and just over 20% live another 20 years. So when this procedure is successful, it's truly lifesaving. Unfortunately, people in developing countries are often unable to access this surgery, and many viable hearts can’t be donated due to legal and regulatory issues. Thousands of people remain on waiting lists, and many are never able to find a suitable donor.              
            

P8 2022-05-31 Can you solve the fortress riddle - Henri Picciotto 
[播放链接](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1XF411G7iq?p=8)
Bad news: your worst enemies are at the gate. For your fledgling kingdom guards the world’s only herd of tiny dino creatures. To you, they’re sacred. To everyone else, they’re food. The three closest nation-states have all teamed up in what they call an alliance of the hungry to smash open your walls and devour the herd. Your fortifications will hold off their armies for now. But when their siege weapons arrive tomorrow, you won’t stand a chance. Luckily, you have a wall fabricator: if you run it all night, you may be able to reinforce your border before the weapons arrive. However, it can only create wall segments of a specific, whole number size that you must determine ahead of time. Your engineers have been in close consultation with your spymaster. Each rival kingdom has wall-busters that come in one specific size. The clowns’ are all 6 meters, the royals’ are 9, and the redheads’ are 20. Each wall-buster can level a wall segment of the matching size. And they can be combined as well; two 6′s can take out a 12 meter wall and a 6 and a 9 could break one that’s 15 meters. But a 7 meter wall would hold fast against any of them. Meanwhile, large walls aren't necessarily protected. Here’s how they could take down 70, 71, and 72 meters. Your fabricator takes the same amount of time to produce a wall segment no matter its length, and it’s not particularly fast. So to finish the wall in time, you need the longest segment that can’t be destroyed by any combination of the siege weapons, which your enemies have hundreds of. What wall length will save your kingdom? Pause here to figure it out yourself. Answer in 3 Answer in 2 Answer in 1 It's possible to solve this problem by trial and error. But there’s also a remarkably quick and elegant solution inspired by an idea that’s thousands of years old: the sieve of Eratosthenes. Eratosthenes of Cyrene was a 3rd century BCE mathematician from ancient Greece interested in prime numbers, that is numbers only divisible by 1 and themselves. Presumably he grew bored of manually checking whether a given number was prime, so he came up with the following technique. Make a giant list of numbers. X out all of the multiples of 2, except 2 itself. Now do the same with multiples of 3. The even multiples have already been eliminated, and the odd multiples can all be found in this column. 4 was already accounted for when you did multiples of 2, so move on to 5. The multiples of 5 and 7 show up conveniently in diagonals. This method eliminates all possible composite numbers, leaving only primes behind. We've already identified every prime less than 121, and it’s easy to go higher and higher this way. We can use a similar technique with our wall problem to eliminate entire groups of numbers at once. A first, critical step is to be deliberate about the number of columns. If we use 6 again, the numbers in each column will be exactly 6 apart. What that means is that if we identify a number vulnerable to the wall-busters, then all the rest of the column below it would also fall. In other words, because your enemies can make 9, they can make 15, 21, 27, and so on by adding the clowns’ 6-meter machines. So right away this eliminates 6, 9 and 20, and everything under them. We’ve accounted for the 6′s with the columns, so we can focus on combinations of 20′s and 9′s to eliminate more options. Your rivals can easily make 20 plus 9 and 20 plus 20 and everything below. Using this approach, we could have eliminated the 70, 71, and 72, and infinitely many other options without having to do any calculations. In the remaining column there are no multiples of 9 or 20, but 49 jumps out, as 2 times 20 plus 9. There's no way to make 43, so that must be the largest wall segment that your enemies can’t destroy. And there you have it. You plug 43 into the wall fabricator, and after a tense night, the sun rises on your now impregnable fortress and a herd that won’t become unhappy meals.              
